Mr President , Commissioners , first of all , I cannot help but reflect upon the fact that this is , on the whole , a Dutch - British - Scandinavian debate where the speakers are concerned . Perhaps this is a little worrying . 
I hope , like so many others , that the state of emergency in relations between the Commission and Parliament is on the way to being resolved . 
We must get away from the idea that we are rushing to put out a fire in one corner , only then to have to rush again to put out the next one . 
As Mr Blak said , we must instead establish a system with clear roles . 
First of all , we need tough regulations , which can be implemented . 
Codes of conduct and ethical committees are not enough . There need to be tough rules stating , among other things , what may be decentralised , what may be outsourced and what is independent . 
I find it a little worrying that people are clamouring for independence in this debate without defining what it is in relation to which there is to be independence and without defining what right of decision - making is to be exercised . 
What we need , then , are basic administrative regulations for the EU , for its institutions and for the EU in its relations with the Member States . 
These are what are missing . 
We have asked for a Public Prosecutor ' s Office and criminal law , but we also need administrative law for the EU . 
We should make a good deal of progress if the Commission were to adopt , as binding regulations , the ombudsman ' s proposal of a code of conduct for good administrative practice . 
The van Hulten report is a step in the right direction , but it is not enough . 
Secondly , we must also clarify our own auditing roles . 
The Court of Auditors is to monitor the extent to which actions are incompatible with the regulations , but it should not examine the expediency of a particular action . 
It is the European Parliament which is to carry out the political evaluation . 
We do not hunt down criminals . That is OLAF ' s job . 
Tell me what national parliament , for example , is handed all preliminary investigation documents . 
Obstinate as I am , I also want to say that the regulations governing public access to official records must be clearly better than the draft which has been circulating on the Internet . Otherwise , we shall not get anywhere in this fight . 
Mr President , I would like to extend a warm thank you to the rapporteur for his report . 
I am pleased that I can address him now in Dutch , now that Mr Van den Berg has just done so . 
Otherwise I probably would have felt slightly guilty about this . 
I would like to say that this report represents a huge improvement , also with its amendments . 
I am from the Social Committee and rapporteurs on our committee are always proud to receive 100 amendments because then they know that they have tabled an interesting topic . 
I think that this is also the case here , but I think it would be a bit over the top to spend too much time talking about these 100 amendments . 
I would also point out that our coordinator on the Budgetary Control Committee is Mr Pomés Ruiz , who is Spanish and has hence made a major contribution to this debate from a Spanish perspective . 
Mr President , one of the key aspects which have been mentioned is , to my mind , the rapporteur ' s proposal for the standing committee on standards in public administration . 
A very important proposal indeed . 
I am only very surprised that the Socialist group would like to subordinate this proposal to one tabled by Mrs Morgan , because she wants to scrap it altogether . 
I cannot fully grasp the underlying rationale . 
On the one hand , we receive all kinds of words of praise for the rapporteur but , at the same time , Mrs Morgan wants to pursue a sort of scorched earth policy on this point and on other key points as well , as a result of which , in fact , the entire content of this report vanishes . 
I do not know whether this is to appease Mr Kinnock , but I happen to know Mr Kinnock . 
He is happy to hear what our demands are and is quite prepared to be flexible if he considers it necessary . 
In my opinion , such a far - reaching scorched earth policy is really unnecessary . 
Finally , the issue of officials . 
Actually , I do not entirely share Mr Haarder ' s view . 
I do agree that the section on officials has , in fact , been completed totally inadequately . 
First of all , the importance of a public service in general is not at all emphasised . 
Secondly , all kinds of proposals are nevertheless being mooted , and we have to ask ourselves whether these are terribly appropriate and whether they would lead to improvement . 
For example , we are currently looking into TAOs . This is a key point but , at the same time , we want to abolish temporary staff at the Commission . 
These two considerations are diametrically opposed to each other , and I really fail to grasp how such a proposal can end up on the table . 
Mr President , ever since Plato ' s ' Republic '  , the Western world has regularly been tempted to replace government by the people with government by experts . 
Our Parliament first asked experts to help it evaluate the performance of the European Commission and they took advantage of this invitation to determine , themselves , what its future should be . 
In this second report , the experts have gone a step further and criticised some of the political groups in Parliament , which may have hesitated to remove the European Commission from office , since they shared the political affiliations of some of its members . The experts think that this problem will be resolved by banning the Commissioners from belonging to political groups . 
According to the experts , Parliament should no longer have the power to supervise the European Commission . This task should be taken over by a committee which will guarantee high standards in public life , and this should be a standing committee , not elected , presumably made up of another group of experts . 
In this , their second report , the experts tell us that Italy is financed by the Cohesion Fund , that the ERDF and the Social Fund represent two - thirds of the Structural Funds and that the principles of additionality and complementarity in the Structural Funds come to the same thing . They tell us that the farming lobby is forcing us to finance rural development through the EAGGF - Guarantee and that the principle of partnership only applies to the Commission and to the Member States . 
This lesson in wisdom is 100 % ideology and 0 % knowledge . 
This will not help us to reform the European institutions whilst fully respecting democratic institutions . 
The van Hulten report started out as a brilliant one and I would like to pay deep and sincere tribute here to what Mr van Hulten achieved . 
Unfortunately , it was then changed , and changed for the worse , which turned it into a document which in fact , proposes something that we cannot accept . 
Mr President , Mr van Hulten , your work is worthy of being qualified as enterprising , arduous and complex , and I believe this is important in a first report . 
Please therefore accept what I am about to say as being criticism made in the spirit of honest debate , and I believe that in this way our debate here today will be richer . 
This report seems to me to be redundant , long - winded , confused and lacking in accuracy in the terms used . 
Perhaps ' redundant ' is the most serious epithet , and you are not responsible for this . It is the responsibility of this Parliament . 
That is to say , if this Parliament commissions a Committee of Experts - and I am not going to repeat what Mr Casaca has said , but I agree with him to a large extent - to analyse a problem , where is the sense in indulging in the medieval tradition of criticising the critics and so on , ad infinitum . 
Clearly we are awaiting this reform from the Commission , we are awaiting the proposals which the Commission is going to make to us and this Parliament will have to express its opinion on them . 
Meanwhile , we have to offer the Commission a vote of confidence . 
 ' Long - winded '  . 
I am not going to mention the length of this report . 
I do not know if it breaks the record for all the resolutions presented here , but , for this type of resolution it certainly does . 
I do not believe that there has ever been a resolution - and in this Parliament we certainly produce complex resolutions - which has had paragraphs of more than 16 lines without a single full stop . 
It is also ' confusing '  . 
I am not going to return to what has been said about the analysis of questions concerning Parliament . 
That should be the subject of another report and we will have to carry one out and consider that issue , but not in this report . 
And finally , Mr President , frankly , I am not going to give examples , but there are many cases in which legal language is used with an alarming lack of accuracy . 
Therefore - in summary - I await , and many of us await , your report , Commissioner Kinnock , so that we can really express our opinion on it , which is the duty of this Parliament . 
Mr President , the scope and highly detailed nature of the proposals for necessary reform measures show just how important these reforms are . 
When one considers the events that have set these endeavours in motion though , it is only too clear as to why there is a need for them . 
Hopes and expectations were raised higher still by the strong messages sent out by Commissioners Prodi and Kinnock in plenary and in the Committee on Budgetary Control . 
The concept of transparency stands out in the report . 
Securing this is a major priority . 
The importance of smooth - running , comprehensible work cannot possibly be emphasised enough . 
This is not just about bureaucratic reform , however ; rather , it is about showing good will towards the citizens . 
We must win back their faith in EU politics . 
The citizens demand rapid and open access to the institutions and call for EU provisions to be comprehensible to them . 
This is what enables them to understand what is going on . They want to see the politics of success and believe that this is how any politically mature citizen could expect to be served
Whether or not the reforms succeed depends , to a very large extent , on the Commission ' s own initiative . 
However , it annoyed me when I heard today that the Commission is now saying that it only wishes to discuss the interim report with Parliament on an informal basis . 
However , Mr Kinnock , your presentation to the Committee on Budgetary Control this coming Tuesday must not just be a one - way street ; rather , as Parliamentarians , we want , and must , play a part in this and it also goes against my understanding of politics when I find that yet another press conference has taken place this week , before we have had chance to carefully discuss the submission in the competent Committee on Budgetary Control . 
I believe , Mr Kinnock , that notwithstanding all the success achieved on a personal level , the Commission still has quite a lot to do to satisfy our justifiably high expectations . 
Can I begin by stating for the record and for the enlightenment of Mrs Langenhagen that the decision for me not to address the full plenary tomorrow and therefore be available for formal responses on the report is not mine and not the Commission ' s - it was the decision of this Parliament ! 
So if she has any lectures to offer they are best contained within this House . 
She knows me well enough to understand that at all stages in the five years in which we worked together in this House , there has never been a single occasion on which I have refused to account in full , formally and in detail for everything I have done . 
Mr President , may I begin by paying tribute to the painstaking and , from what I hear , the pains - accepting work of Mr van Hulten in preparing his report . 
Although new to this House he is relatively old in some respects , certainly in his familiarity with the Institutions as a former official - and I think that the value of that is shown by his ability to tackle the complex subject which is of critical importance , as several Members have said , to all of our Institutions . 
I thank him and I wish him a long and distinguished career as a representative . 
Mr President , as you will know , Mr van Hulten ' s report on the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts is necessarily long and , since I want to make a comprehensive reply , particularly on the issues relating to financial management and control , I seek your indulgence . 
Naturally I will not take up any more of the time of the House than is absolutely necessary . 
When this House considered the second report of the Committee of Experts last September , I pledged on behalf of the incoming Commission that the report would be treated as a fundamental ingredient in the Commission ' s reform proposals . 
Our efforts to completely honour that pledge will be evident to the House when consideration is given to the reform package that was adopted by the Commission today , well within the demanding timetable that we set for ourselves four months ago . 
I am sure that Mr Pomes Ruiz is encouraged by that . 
The great majority of the paper ' s proposals are closely akin to those put by Mr van Hulten and that paper includes - I say to him and to Mr Staes - a very explicit timetable of actions to be undertaken in pursuit of reform . 
There is nothing therefore that is open - ended or vague about the report which I have had the honour to compile . 
The considered view of this Parliament in the consultation period over the next four to five weeks will for obvious reasons be of great significance . 
I would say to Mr Elles that we are most definitely in listening mode . 
But he will appreciate - with his customary generosity I am sure - that for us to be able to listen to the response to what we are proposing , it is first necessary to transmit what we are proposing . 
Hence the transmission . 
Though time forbids me , Mr President , from commenting in this debate on each element in the resolution before the House , I readily give the assurance that the details will be treated as an important input into our reform proposals throughout this consultation and indeed to our work in other relevant areas . 
Turning to the main themes of the resolution I offer the following observations . 
The need for transparency is rightly stressed , not least because greater transparency in the way in which the Commission operates will improve the efficiency and will also demystify what the Commission does . 
This is essential for an executive administration that must be accountable , not just to this House , but more generally to the European public . 
Naturally , sensible safeguards are required to protect specially sensitive information , but the cases where these are needed should be kept to the minimum possible . 
I have repeatedly emphasised that , indeed not just as a Commissioner , but in 25 or 30 years of campaigning . 
That most certainly is the intention of the Commission . 
Financial management and control is obviously a crucial area of reform . 
As the House knows and has repeatedly said , the scale and scope of the Union ' s financial interventions have grown immensely in the past decade without a proportionate increase in staffing or an adjustment in procedures . 
Several Members have made that point again in the course of today ' s debate . 
We share the view , forcefully expressed by the Committee of Independent Experts , and repeated in this draft resolution that the time has come for a thorough overhaul of our rules and procedures . 
The means of doing that are set out in the reform strategy and the Commission will present its proposals for a radical recasting of the Financial Regulation in April . 
Parliamentary support in pursuing that essential course for change will be absolutely vital . 
I share the view expressed by Mrs Theato that it would not be acceptable in any way at all for us to seek to operate new arrangements without a change in the law . 
Change in the law is fundamental . 
There are preparations which can be made and they are specified and set out with the full reassurances in the reform strategy , but enactment of change in the legislation is obviously of fundamental importance to the operation of the new system . 
Essentially - and with legal change - the Commission will systematically move away from the current centralised system of prior approval of each financial transaction by the Financial Controller and instead strengthen the internal control systems within spending departments so that Directors - General are better equipped to take responsibility for decisions with an impact on the European Union budget . 
In addition , and to achieve better assurances than those provided under the present system , the new system of decentralised controls must be complemented by setting up an internal audit service -  " the second key " as Herr Bösch said , established in a way that is closely consistent with the recommendations of the Committee of Experts . 
That service will open on 1 May this year . 
It will be headed by a professionally qualified member of the audit profession and its independence must and will be guaranteed through a new provision to be added in the financial regulation . 
The new service will report to me and it will be accompanied by an Audit Progress Board chaired by my colleague , Mrs Schreyer , who I am delighted to see in the Chamber this evening . 
As Budgets Commissioner , here responsibilities already include relations with the Court of Auditors . 
This Audit Progress Board will ensure effective and rigorous follow - up to internal audits . 
I want to emphasise strongly that changing our control systems will definitely not mean relaxing them . 
The proposed change will make the systems more effective , both in terms of inputs and in terms of measured and accountable outcomes . 
I can also specifically assure the House that we are not going for what is sometimes called " a big bang approach " . 
Financial control ' s ex ante visa for each spending department will only be relinquished as and when the internal control system in a department is shown to be fully adequate . 
I am somewhat surprised that paragraph 10 of the draft resolution does not appear to address the fundamental criticisms of the current centralised financial control function made in both reports of the Committee of Independent Experts . 
That committee was very clear about the need to abolish the centralised ex ante visa . 
It was clear too on the need to separate internal audit from financial control . 
In addition , I do not believe that paragraph 10 fully reflects the opinion of the Court of Auditors in 1997 . 
Naturally the Court will be able to give its considered opinion on the proposed changes to the Financial Regulation but it is useful to recall Mr Karlsson ' s comments to this House last month . 
 " The Commission ' s internal control " he said " is not forceful enough in preventing incorrect operation . 
For instance , the Financial Controller granted a positive a priori visa in most of the cases of mismanagement or irregularities recently uncovered . 
At the same time , the internal audit function is carried out in an uncoordinated way by several bodies , notably the same Financial Controller , the Inspectorate General and by some units operating Directorates - General . " 
The centralised ex ante approval system was doubtlessly originally designed to ensure carefulness but , over the years , it has had the perverse effect of reducing the extent to which managers feel responsible for their decisions . 
I do not believe that there is any real disagreement between us on this . 
I take it from paragraph 10 that the underlying preoccupation of honourable Members is that there should be a carefully managed transition . 
That will most certainly be the character of the change as honourable Members will see when they read the reform strategy document . 
Our objective , the committee ' s objective , the Court of Auditors ' objective is not to abolish financial control , it is to get rid of and improve upon centralised financial control . 
Before leaving this area I would add that we agree with the rapporteur that the existing internal audit function must be maintained pending the establishment of the new independent internal audit service in a matter of months . 
Turning quickly to the section of the resolution on fighting fraud , corruption , mismanagement and nepotism : the major new proposal of the report concerns reporting by Commission officials of perceived wrong - doing . 
As I made clear in the hearings last September and on other occasions , we are at one in the belief that there is value in defining the best possible mechanisms for this purpose although obviously we all hope that it will rarely be needed . 
Since June of last year , the OLAF regulation has given better guidance to staff about reporting possible irregularities . 
We propose to complement those provisions by defining the rights and obligations for officials to report suspected wrong - doing through internal channels but not exclusively within the same hierarchical line . 
The possibility of using specified external channels will also be addressed . 
We are seeking to implement best practice . 
Serious response to reports , confidentiality at early stages and career protection will be assured for people who report wrong - doing in good faith and in ways that do not compromise investigations by untimely disclosure . 
As a corollary , there will be safeguards for officials who are the subject of false allegations . 
A communication later this year will give full details . 
I do not think Parliament will be disappointed by what we will propose . I am persuaded , however , by the suggestion in paragraph 34 of the report on using external bodies to enforce existing provisions on financial liability . 
We already plan to reform the existing disciplinary procedures to ensure thoroughness , fairness , consistency and professionalism . 
And we will propose the establishment of an interinstitutional Disciplinary Board - something else on which we will need the support and understanding of Parliament . 
A communication in June will set out the full proposal for change . 
Standards in public life is the next main section of the report before the House . 
With the introduction of a series of codes of conduct the current Commission has begun to develop an explicit ethical framework . 
This will be taken a step further with a proposal in June for an interinstitutional agreement on a committee on standards in public life . 
That is in line with the draft resolution . 
An important role for the committee will be to give advice on ethics and standards and to supervise common and separate codes of conduct for the institutions . 
I welcome Parliament ' s support for that . 
We are also currently examining how we can most effectively implement the proposal for a classification system for documents , made in paragraph 50 of Mr van Hulten ' s report . 
The draft resolution rightly recalls the Commission ' s accountability to this Parliament . 
President Prodi and Vice - President de Palacio and other colleagues have demonstrated the Commission ' s practical commitment to that . 
I hope that we will soon be able to agree a code of conduct on relations between our institutions which will include updated rules on access to documents . 
The point was very properly raised by Mr Elles and referred to by Mrs Thors . 
I am sure they are aware that in mid - December we officially received the draft framework agreement with Parliament . 
We are now waiting for Parliament to decide when it wishes to begin negotiations on the text . 
We are very happy to proceed as rapidly as possible . 
The report rightly emphasises the central importance that human resources policy must have in reform . 
I am glad to say to Mr van Hulten and Mr Haarder that the detailed recommendations on recruitment , training , appraisal and the appointment to management positions are very much in line with our own thinking and our own proposals . 
I also want to move towards a linear career system because the current category system is no longer adapted to the needs of our institutions . 
It certainly blocks the advance and mobility of people with proven capabilities . 
Members , who , in the course of this debate , have properly praised Commission officials , who in the great majority and typically are of high integrity , hard - working and of great capability , are absolutely right in the comments that they have made . 
While the reform strategy White Paper will clearly outline our ideas on these and other points , detail and precision are obviously essential . 
A series of communications will therefore follow in the coming months . Each of them will be available for reflection and response by this House . 
It is , meanwhile , very obvious that we will need to work closely with Parliament , as an institution , on central matters of common interest , notably pay and pensions and the revision of the staff regulations . 
On this latter point we are reflecting on whether it might be useful to adopt a framework regulation which makes common provision on leading issues like pay , conditions , staff representation rights and so on , but enables the different institutions to operate implementing rules on other matters . 
The early thoughts of Parliament on this consultative idea would be especially welcome . 
I conclude by referring to paragraph 15 of the resolution before the House relating to the resource requirements of our policies for change . 
That is most certainly relevant . 
We are sure that there will be an important " reform dividend " as the modernisation measures begin to foster increased efficiency and better management in the use of resources . 
It is very clear , however , that parts of the Commission services are already very stretched . 
Parliament has frequently made that point . 
Secondly , it is also clear that reform will require some new investment in training for skills and in technology . 
Thirdly , it is very clear that increased preparations for enlargement must be undertaken . 
They are already having implications for resource availability . 
It is also clear that if we take on new tasks - which we will surely be asked to do by the Council and Parliament - we will have to identify so - called " negative priorities " and drop those negative priorities in order to create spare capacity . 
A central feature of the reform will therefore be a more rigorous process for tying the process of priority - setting into resource allocation under a system of activity - based management . 
I want to emphasise , however , that whilst internal discipline on priority - setting will certainly be introduced by the Commission , it can only be fully effective if Parliament and the Council share it and take an equally stringent attitude to the demands made on the Commission . 
The Commission therefore welcomes paragraph 15 of Mr van Hulten ' s report . 
I conclude , Mr President , by thanking the House for its attention during an unavoidably lengthy speech and by expressing sincere gratitude to the rapporteur , to the Committee on Budgetary Control and to the other committees which gave their opinions . 
We look forward to working closely with this House on the finalisation of the reform strategy package and then , most important of all , working together with this House on its implementation continually through the years that will be required on such complexities . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p . m . 
 ( The sitting was closed at 11 . 15 p . m . ) 
Middle East peace process ( continuation ) 
The next item is the continuation of the Council and Commission statements on the Middle East peace process . 
I am very grateful to the President of the Council for the statement this morning on the Middle East at the beginning of this debate and for hearing some of Minister Gama ' s insights , as he arrived hot - foot from the region . 
My only regret is that my own commitment to open the European Reconstruction Agency on Monday meant that I could not take part myself in that trip to the Middle East , even though , as I mentioned earlier in the day - which is another story - events conspired to maroon me at Munich airport rather than transport me to Thessaloniki . 
Such is life . 
I hope that honourable Members will excuse me if I am not able to stay to the end of the debate as I would , in all normal circumstances , wish to do . 
The debate was fixed for this morning and on that basis I had arranged to see visitors from the Balkans this evening . 
So I hope I can count on the understanding of the House on this occasion . 
It is not something , I assure you , which I would wish to make a practice of . 
Like honourable Members , I welcome the United States ' efforts that have relaunched the Syrian / Israeli negotiations , despite the Syrian decision that they needed more time before resuming the talks that were scheduled to start again today . 
There is reasonable hope that a basis for a peace agreement can be built in the near future . 
I also hope that progress in the Syrian track will pave the way for an early resumption of Lebanese / Israeli talks which could then advance in parallel towards an overall deal on Israel ' s relations with its northern neighbours . 
At the same time we must not lose sight of the Palestinian track . 
The situation of the Palestinians has always been the core issue of the conflict . 
A fair and , indeed , generous deal with them remains the key to lasting peace in the Middle East . 
Israelis and Palestinians have made substantial progress in implementing the Sharm el - Sheikh Memorandum . 
Although there has been some slippage , I trust that the remaining Israeli troop redeployments will materialise soon . 
Similarly , despite the indication the day before yesterday that the timetable for the Framework Agreement on permanent status has been pushed beyond the mid - February deadline , I very much hope that the much more important September deadline for the final agreement on permanent status will be reached . 
I was reassured that this was also the view of Prime Minister Barak and President Arafat , when they met on Monday . 
Honourable Members will know that one particular concern of ours has been that there should be a resumption of progress on the multilateral track . 
This is far from straightforward but we will do what we can to make this possible , in close liaison with the US and Russian co - sponsors as well as the regional parties . 
We are charged with particular responsibility for the promotion of regional economic development . 
The beginning of the talks with Syria paved the way for a convening of the multilateral steering group in Moscow at the end of the month . 
I look forward to attending that meeting and hope that at last we can begin to push things forward again . 
The European Union has an important role to play in the peace process , as all sides - Palestinians , Israelis , their Arab neighbours and the United States - have acknowledged . 
Nor is our role confined to that of banker . 
We must be prepared to act swiftly to support the consolidation of peace in the region . 
But we should not kid ourselves : a comprehensive Middle East peace deal comes with a hefty price tag . 
The Commission is already considering the implications for the European Union of the recent encouraging developments . 
We intend to share our more detailed thoughts on the matter with Parliament and Council soon . 
But let me remind honourable Members that the European Union is no slouch when it comes to financial support for the peace process . 
We are the largest of all donors to the Palestinians . 
We have also offered very substantial support to Jordan , Lebanon , Syria and Egypt . 
With the Israelis we have established closer cooperation in a number of areas of particular interest to them . 
The Community contribution of over EUR 600 million in grants and loans between 1994 and 1998 effectively underpinned the Palestinian authority and contributed substantially towards the reconstruction of the deteriorated physical infrastructure in the West Bank and Gaza . 
European Union Member States together contributed another EUR 860 million during that crucial period . 
In this context , let me applaud the important steps that the Palestinian authority has recently taken to improve budgetary transparency . 
President Arafat will be meeting the Council of Ministers next week . 
This will be a good opportunity to address the need to take similarly courageous steps to improve the Palestinian administration and to bolster the rule of law . 
The Commission is actively involved in those efforts . 
The Commission has also stepped up its planned support for regional cooperation projects between Israelis and Arabs . 
We committed more than EUR 20 million for such projects last year . 
This package included renewed assistance for people - to - people activities and cross - border cooperation where Israelis and Arabs meet on non - governmental and expert levels . 
Members will recall that the European Union is the largest financial donor to the overall efforts in bringing reconciliation to the people of the Middle East . 
A number of issues naturally emerge as additional potential targets of Community support in the coming phase of the peace process - among them , helping to consolidate a Golan settlement both in terms of contributing to security arrangements and supporting demining and the rebuilding of communities in the Golan Heights . 
Syrian economic development will need assistance for the transition from a wartime to a peace economy . 
Reconstruction and rehabilitation of southern Lebanon , the only Middle Eastern area with an ongoing military conflict , will also demand considerable efforts . 
We also need to continue our support for economic reform and social development in Lebanon as a whole . 
A solution is needed to the Palestinian refugee problem - these are the largest group of refugees in the world , numbering nearly 5 million people - an indication of the enormous challenges ahead . 
We must support initiatives increasing the availability and improving the distribution and management of the region ' s very scarce water resources . 
Lastly , but maybe most importantly , we are encouraging closer regional cooperation in a number of areas , bringing all the countries concerned together in a joint endeavour to address their common problems . 
It is already apparent that the financial resources currently available for Community assistance to this part of the world will not be sufficient for the magnitude of support that will be required in the event of permanent peace . 
I want to underline that point . 
I wish insistently to remind the Council and , should it be necessary , Parliament , that we should not continue to allow a gap to develop between our rhetoric and what we are actually capable of doing . 
I repeat that a change in the politics of the Middle East will require a gear change in the support that we shall be asked and expected to provide . 
I hope I can add that we will want to provide that . 
We have made progress in recent months and weeks , as Mr Gama mentioned earlier . 
But it is inevitably going to be a tough process with difficulties and disappointments on the way . 
We will do all we can to help the process to a successful conclusion and to meet the obligations and challenges that will be created by that outcome . 
Lastly , I will repeat for some who have entered the Chamber in the last few minutes , what I said at the outset of my remarks : that I will not be able to stay until the end of the debate , largely as a result of having assumed that the debate was taking place this morning and having fixed a meeting on the Balkans for this evening . 
I hope the House will understand that . 
Mr President , Commissioner Patten has our understanding . 
I would like to tell him that communications with Madrid are usually more fluid and , therefore , I hope to see him there soon . 
The statements we have heard today on the Middle East peace process are very opportune at the moment because of the hurried tour which Minister Gama - whose absence from this debate I also regret - has made of the region , accompanied by other Council representatives . 
The tone of the news in the media on the recent events in the area could lead us to take a pessimistic view of the situation . 
I honestly believe that an evaluation of this type would not be in accordance with the reality of that situation . 
In this sense , I share Commissioner Patten ' s positive attitude . 
Let me explain : it is true that the Israeli Government has delayed the third hand - over of West Bank territory to the Palestinian authorities . 
It is also true , however , that , since the signing of the Sharm el - Sheikh agreements , 39 % of the territory of the West Bank has been handed over to the Palestinian National Authority , together with two thirds of the Gaza Strip and , more importantly , this agreement has so far been scrupulously complied with , since , under the terms laid down in Sharm el - Sheikh , the Israeli Government has the right to delay that handover . 
This is naturally on the condition that the delay does not exceed three weeks , as Prime Minister Barak has promised . 
On the other hand , the decision to delay the second round of talks , initiated in Shepherdstown by the Syrian Arab Republic , is undoubtedly significant , but I am convinced that the hopes which were raised on 3 January in that town will not be dashed . 
Mr President , the fact that the different groups in this Parliament are tabling a motion for a resolution , in this ever controversial debate , which is the result of a broad consensus , seems to me to demonstrate the clear political will to decisively support open peace processes . 
I would therefore like , equally firmly , to express our rejection of the use of violence to resolve differences , which are still no doubt profound , between the parties . 
In my judgement , this constitutes a guarantee to both sides , both from a political and a financial point of view , of the commitment they can expect from the European Union in terms of its contribution to the cost of the peace which we all long for . 
It is clear to everyone that this is essential to guaranteeing security in the area and to cooperating in the development which is needed to heal the serious social differences which exist . 
But this also serves to make a claim , on the part of the European Union , for a degree of political participation in the process which is consistent with its economic contribution - we do not have aspirations to be bankers - and which will be suitably visible to the public . 
There is absolutely no doubt that the forthcoming trip by the President of the European Parliament to the region will contribute to this . 
Mr President , I want to thank Commissioner Patten for his detailed account . 
I should like to say that I agree with the tone which Galeote Quecedo ' s speech set here . We in Parliament strongly support the Middle East peace process . 
It is , of course , a peace process which is finally under way . 
If we think of how the process was looking a year ago , the difference between then and now is like that between night and day , despite difficulties and delays . 
I want to emphasise four points . First of all , the Sharm el - Sheikh Agreement contains , as everyone knows , a concrete timetable for the implementation of Israel ' s commitments . 
This applies both to the interim agreement and to the Hebron and Wye Agreements . While the negotiations on the final peace settlement have begun , I think it is important to keep the two processes apart . 
A lack of progress in the final status negotiations should not jeopardise implementation of the three above - mentioned interim agreements . 
What we need to look out for in this context is how matters develop in connection with the harbours in Gaza , the northern transit route between Gaza and the West Bank , further releases of political prisoners and implementation of the financial commitments . 
The second point relates to Syria . There , the border question is obviously central . 
How negotiations are proceeding there , we still do not know . 
What is important , however , is that they have begun . 
An important question in this context is the future distribution of water . 
As things are at present , the Golan Heights account for between a third and a sixth of Israel ' s water supply . 
The third aspect is the peace negotiations in Syria which are closely linked to the issue of Israeli withdrawal from Southern Lebanon . 
According to UNIFIL , there are now concrete signs that Israel is preparing to withdraw , which is something we welcome . 
There too , of course , outstanding matters in dispute are the water problem and the situation of the Lebanese Palestinian refugees . 
My last point concerns the future Palestinian State . 
This may be proclaimed in the course of this year , with or without Israel ' s support . 
The Barak government has given to understand that it intends to conclude a peace agreement with a state as the other party . 
Even if negotiations are not completed by September of this year , there is nothing in the relevant treaties to prevent a Palestinian state from being proclaimed after that date . 
In this context , it is important for those of us who support the idea of a Palestinian state that the latter should be as Commissioner Patten said , namely a state subject to public control , and that it should be a democratic state . 
This is something to which we all want to contribute . 
Mr President , I would like to refer , firstly and above all , to the joint resolution which will be laid down to round off this debate . 
My Group has made a contribution to this resolution and , needless to say , approves of it . More specifically , however , I would like to express our delight at the fact that , after such a long time , Israel and Syria are on speaking terms again to resolve their differences of opinion . 
The recent negotiations are already an important step towards a permanent peace in the Middle East . 
It is , therefore , regrettable that these peace talks have been suspended for the time being . 
Indeed , both parties will need to make huge efforts . 
Lasting peace in the region can only be achieved by means of an agreement which guarantees the security of the Israeli borders , as well as Syria ' s integrity . 
It is also necessary to initiate permanent diplomatic relations and to establish constant dialogue . 
In addition to the bilateral meetings with Syria , I hope that Israel will also enter into negotiations with Lebanon within the foreseeable future and that , in the framework of economic and regional cooperation , a multilateral approach will appear possible . 
Nevertheless , it is still regrettable that the European Union , one of the most important financial donors , is still unable to play a major political role in the peace process . 
This peace process in the Middle East is one of the priorities of the European Union ' s common foreign and security policy . 
This is where Mr Solana , the High Representative to the Council , could come into his own . 
The Commission and Member States also have to be encouraged to support projects which can help develop understanding and partnership between the different nations in the region . 
I should also draw your attention to the significance of the Barcelona process which should have a beneficial impact on regional cooperation . 
In this respect , we support Libya ' s participation , provided that it recognises human rights , renounces support for terrorists and fully supports the peace process . 
There are still , needless to say , many unresolved problems and unanswered questions , also involving the Palestinians . 
Everyone knows that the peace process is a protracted and difficult affair but we are convinced that , with the necessary trust , perseverance and indispensable political will , our common goal , namely a peaceful and prosperous Middle East , will be achieved . 
Mr President , it is pleasing that , despite certain delays and problems , the peace negotiations are going on both between Israel and Palestine and between Israel and Syria . 
The moment of truth is approaching . 
Is Israel prepared to comply with the UN ' s resolutions and , in exchange for peace and security , hand back the Arab areas which were conquered in 1967 ? 
Will Israel let Palestinian refugees return or be given compensation ? 
Will Israel share Jerusalem and the water of the River Jordan ? 
Will a free Palestine be a truly democratic state and , therefore , reliable as a partner in peace ? 
Will Syria fully accept Israel ' s existence and introduce democracy and the rule of law ? 
The fact that the main responsibility for the peace process lies with the occupying country , Israel , does not prevent the Arab partners from also having a considerable share of the responsibility . 
Peace in the Middle East concerns us all , however . 
It is therefore good that the EU should act as a godparent to the Palestinian state . 
Against this background , I want to conclude with a remarkable story from Sweden where an international Intergovernmental Conference on Hitler ' s extermination of the Jews is being held , which is obviously a welcome initiative . 
Of 47 states invited from all corners of the world , not one of them , however , is an Arab state included in the EU ' s Barcelona process . 
This has been interpreted as indicating that the Arab attitude towards Israel should be regarded by Europeans as being similar to the Nazis ' anti - Semitism , which of course is completely incorrect . 
The Arab world ' s criticism of Israel has been founded upon the same sort of anti - colonialism as , for example , Algeria ' s fight for freedom against France . 
But today , Egypt , Jordan and Palestine have peace treaties with Israel . 
I therefore wonder whether Commissioner Patten does not agree with me that it would have been only right and proper to have invited at least one Arab state to the holocaust conference in Stockholm . 
Mr President , I would like to thank Commissioner Patten very much for the awareness he has demonstrated of the difficulties inherent in the peace process and the challenge that the European Union is taking on to bring it to completion . 
It is high time there was peace in the Middle East . 
It is time to end the era which began with the Balfour declaration in 1917 and the Arab - Israeli war of 1948 . It is time there were secure borders and political , social and economic rights in every country in this region , and that human rights were recognised and upheld in Syria , Palestine , Israel and everywhere else . 
This is an exercise in sovereignty , and in democracy for each population and every individual , but to this end it is vital for all parties in the conflict to have the courage to strive for peace and rights , and to recognise the other as its partner and not as its subject to whom concessions must be given . 
I refer principally to the Palestine - Israel question , but the same also applies to the territories which have been occupied in the Golan since 1967 and in southern Lebanon since 1982 . 
Israel has to accept its responsibilities , withdraw from the occupied territories and share its water resources but , at the same time , it has to be sure that it will be safe and able to live in peace in terms of economic and political relations with all the countries in the area . 
However , Israel is not the only country concerned with security . 
The same goes for the other countries , especially for the Palestinians , who are still living under military occupation and whose land even today is still confiscated in areas B and C , despite the Oslo Agreement and subsequent agreements . 
Between the period when the Oslo Agreement was signed and 17 October 1999 , 174 000 dunams of land were confiscated , 8 462 of which have been taken under Mr Barak ' s Government . 
Trees have been uprooted , houses are still being demolished and , above all , water supplies have been reduced or refused , especially in East Jerusalem , while the settlements continue and are growing constantly . 
Nevertheless , there is no doubt that with the election of the new government , positive steps have been taken : negotiations , at least , have resumed . 
But in the Middle East , there can be no stable and lasting peace if the Palestinians do not have their own state , if they cannot move freely within their own territory . 
All the international community has to do is implement Resolutions 332 , 248 , 245 and 194 . 
We are concerned by the deferment of the building of relations with Syria , as well as Mr Barak ' s decision to postpone the withdrawal of the Israeli army and the Sharm el ­ - Sheikh agreements . 
We feel it is extremely important for the European Union to play a political role in negotiations which matches its economic aid . 
We cannot be content with a role backstage . We must be leading protagonists while staying off a collision course with the United States , as Minister Gama said . 
Mr President , firstly my thanks and appreciation to Commissioner Patten for his comments here today , particularly in relation to the role of the European Union in the peace process , and for reaffirming that our role is not only that of " banker " for the entire operation . 
I was deeply disappointed at the news this week that the peace talks between Israel and Syria had been suspended . 
I very much hope that a compromise can be reached to overcome this so that the peace negotiations can be resumed at a very early date . 
Nevertheless , we cannot deny that some positive political progress has been made in the Middle East of late . 
The fact that the Syrian Foreign Minister and the Israeli Prime Minister were recently sitting around the same table in America for the first time in their respective histories is an indication that old hatreds and animosities can be overcome . 
Political leaders must show real courage to put in place a framework which can lead to an overall peace settlement within the Middle East . 
I know that if agreement can be reached between Syria and Israel , the Israeli Prime Minister will still face real opposition to any new agreement with Syria in any future referendum . 
The settlers at the Golan Heights will demand to be compensated and there will have to be guarantees of security . 
If Syria would be willing to offer concessions on the security question then the prospects of a successful resolution to the Israel / Syria question might be promising . 
On the issue of Palestine , I recognise that there are still some difficulties with regard to the implementation of some aspects of the Wye Agreement . 
The key problem areas at the moment include the difficulties of redeployment , as well as the transfer of territories . 
The low level of releases of Palestinian prisoners and the fact that the Israeli Government appears to intend halting implementation of building permits already granted , as well as not approving new ones , pose further obstacles . 
These issues have clearly been holding up progress on the permanent status negotiations , although , I believe , these talks will not be held up indefinitely . 
At present , the main difficulty in approaching the negotiations seems to be that the Palestinians are insisting that the border issue must be agreed upon first , while the Israeli Government says that it should be settled only if a solution is reached on the issue of settlements and security . 
Currently , both sides seem to have accepted that nothing will be agreed until everything is agreed . 
In conclusion , while other countries in the Middle East have had reservations about the overall direction of the peace process , now that the Syrian Government has been brought into the peace process , Egypt and other countries in the region are willing to move forward . 
I sincerely hope that , in the interests of improving the safety and quality of life of the people living in the Middle East , all the key protagonists will move forward quickly , in the very near future , so as to reach an overall agreement on all the key matters which need to be resolved . 
Mr President , the various motions for resolutions tabled in Parliament more or less represent the situation in the Middle East . 
There are those who are in favour of new agreements between Israel and Syria , but only a few focus on the real problem at the heart of the Middle East issue . 
Indeed , the time has come to resolve a central problem for global stability . 
The time has come for Israel to fulfil its promises of old and definitively withdraw from the occupied territories , at last recognising once and for all the authority of Palestine , whose resumed diplomatic activity will have a secure future while it is under the wise leadership of Yasser Arafat . 
It is equally important not to lose sight of the Iraq question , which no one discusses anymore , thereby relegating the problems of millions of women , elderly people and children , the victims of an embargo as arrogant as it is wicked , to oblivion . 
I do not know what Syria and Israel will want or be able to do in reality , but I do know that our institution can do a lot and it is time that it attached the same importance to peoples ' lives as it does to the ballasts of the cold , colourless , artificial neon bulbs in our lamps , which can illuminate houses but not the world in the third millennium . 
Mr President , the Israeli author , Amos Oz , managed to capture very aptly the icy atmosphere at the negotiating table between the Israelis and Syrians recently . 
He was under the impression that the Syrians thought that , in exchange for the Golan Heights , all they had to do was to fax the Israelis a receipt . 
Oz ' s impression is also echoed in the Israeli press . 
It contrasts Prime Minister Barak ' s personal peace efforts and the distant attitude , even physical absence , of the strong man of Damascus , President Assad , at the negotiations in the United States . 
Surely Assad would be Barak ' s ideal negotiating partner and not the Foreign Affairs Minister . 
And the Israelis were certainly not impressed by the discourteous behaviour of Minister Farouk al - Shara in Shepherdstown . 
His behaviour towards Prime Minister Ehud Barak was plainly insulting . 
But why pay attention to such detail as basic diplomatic niceties in the face of a tough negotiation process over territory ? 
Well , the Syrians are quite possibly cutting off their nose to spite their face . 
At the end of the day , Israeli voters can still express an opinion on the return of the Golan . 
All the resolutions submitted express the sincere wish for greater European involvement in the peace process . 
It is , however , very much in doubt whether Brussels can make available the billions of dollars which the Israeli and Syrian authorities require from their peace patron , the United States , not to mention the heavy , equally costly , security guarantees in case of an Israeli withdrawal from the Golan . 
I would like to finish off by asking the European Council and Commission a question . How accurate are the press reports which state that the Portuguese Presidency has already pledged troops as a peacekeeping force in the Golan ? 
Mr President , the truth is that the news of the indefinite suspension or delay of the talks between Syria and Israel is not good news , but nor is it good news that the day before yesterday there was another bomb attack which injured 16 people . 
It is clear that , for once , the United States has not been able to secure progress on the restarting of these negotiations , and it is true that the obstacles are difficult to overcome : the Syrians wish to regain sovereignty and jurisdiction over the Golan Heights and re - establish the borders which existed before 4 June 1967 , while the Israelis wish , since they consider that it suits their situation better , to have the borders which were set in 1923 . 
The suspension of the talks between Syria and Israel is not the only delay affecting the peace process in the Middle East . 
The application of the framework agreement between the Palestinian authorities and Israel is also suspended at the moment . 
After the talks which took place the day before yesterday between the Israeli Prime Minister and the Leader of the Palestinian Authority , the Israeli Prime Minister requested a delay of two months as from 13 February , the deadline for the implementation of the framework agreement on the situation in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip . 
What can the European Union do in these circumstances ? 
Unfortunately , very little . 
It naturally has to support these negotiations , sponsored by the United States ; contacts have to be increased ; the presence of the European Union envoy , Ambassador Moratinos , who has fulfilled his mission with great diligence and efficiency , within the powers of the European Union , is positive . 
But none of this hides the fact that there is a certain sense of impotence , because when the negotiators from each side fly back to the United States this weekend , we will have to remember that , for every 100 dollars spent on the peace process in the region , 60 are contributed by the European Union . 
When we consider that a conference will soon be held in Moscow , it becomes clear that the European Union ' s presence in this peace process is somewhat pitiful . 
I would like to insist to the Portuguese Presidency that we must play a greater role , that it is time to take over and to secure greater participation for the European Union in this process . 
I hope that the forthcoming visit by the President of the European Parliament to the region , as well as the presidents of the relevant interparliamentary delegations , will begin an era of greater initiative and a greater presence for the European Union in this complicated and difficult peace process . 
Mr President , Mr President - in - Office of the Council , Commissioner Patten , I should like to thank you for your statements , especially Commissioner Patten , whose analysis I fully share and I shall not , therefore , repeat any of his ideas . 
I should just like to make three comments which Commissioner Patten will perhaps see as similar but which , for various reasons , a Member can formulate more openly . 
First , I believe that we can welcome the agreement between Israel and the Palestinian authorities . 
But we have enough agreements now : Oslo , Wye Plantation , Sharm el - Sheikh . 
We have enough agreements ; they just need to be implemented . 
However , in this regard I share Mr Salafranca ' s scepticism when he says that there has been bad news from Israel this week , namely that the Sharm el - Sheikh Memorandum cannot be implemented within the set timeframe . 
My second point concerns the resumption of negotiations between Syria and Israel . 
I consider this to be very encouraging news . 
But we have also learned this week that Mr Barak will not be travelling to Washington and that the negotiations cannot therefore be continued . 
I should like to make it quite clear : if the Golan Heights are returned to Syria , the problem in this region will be solved . 
On the question of the referendum which various Members have referred to : we must consider if a referendum always needs to be held in order to honour obligations under international law and under the law of nations . 
In Germany , there would probably be dancing in the streets if we were to say that we were holding a referendum on payments to the European Union and we shall pay if the German people are prepared to pay . 
That would be a similar situation . 
My third and last point concerns the role of the European Union . 
I should really like to stress the excellent role which Mr Moratinos ' special mission has played in the region and the funding which we have provided there , Commissioner Patten . 
You know that you will always have our support here in Parliament , and that includes your proposal , and we shall be behind you when the time comes to finance it . 
But we must also play a political role and Mr Moratinos cannot play that role in this region on his own ; the Presidency of the Council must take action , the EU High Representative for common foreign and security policy must travel to the region and we must do as the Russians did and invite the protagonists of the peace process ourselves . 
Then we will have played the role which is commensurate with our participation and our contribution . 
Mr President , Commissioner Patten , the recent peace talks begun in the USA between Israel and Syria mark a turning point in the history of the Middle East . It has taken fifty years to reach this point , which will involve some particularly difficult negotiations . 
There will be no meeting today in Shepherdstown but we must hope , as Mr Patten said just now , that this postponement of the negotiations due to Syrian requirements will only represent one more step on the road to a peace agreement which will change the face of the Middle East . 
This hope is contained in our motion for a resolution . We hope for a fair and balanced agreement based on respect for sovereignties and the right to live securely within safe and recognised borders . 
All the foreign troops , including therefore the Syrian forces , must withdraw from Lebanon in accordance with Resolution 520 of the United Nations Security Council . 
Dare we hope for an Israeli withdrawal from South Lebanon by July 2000 , the date promised by Ehud Barak ? 
Dare we hope for a dual peace agreement between Israel and its neighbours to the north ? 
We really hope and believe so . 
Never have the parties been so determined . 
One fundamental point to be stressed is the balance which must be expressed in the message from Europe and which must exist between the people . There must also be a political balance between the participants in the negotiations . 
Following the attack in Hadera on Monday , we must repeat our condemnation of any form of terrorism . 
In terms of balance , or should I say imbalance , I must add that it is to be regretted that Europe is still playing a minor political role in resolving this conflict . 
At midday , Mr Gama referred to the financial and commercial support provided by Europe to the region . 
Despite everything , we are being forced to recognise that the resumption of the peace process is largely due to the work of Washington . 
Like other Arab countries before them , the Syrians chose the Americans to sponsor the negotiations . 
This was the choice also made by Israel where Europe suffers from a partisan public image , and this is a fact , not a judgement . 
This is now the opportunity to reiterate to Mr Patten , Mr Solana and Mr Moratinos how much we are relying on their efforts to include Europe in the search for a peaceful solution to the conflict . 
Although it is difficult for Europe to speak with one voice about the peace process , it can and must speak in the same spirit of confidence and solidarity . 
The next item is questions to the Council ( B5 - 0040 / 99 ) and the Commission ( B5 - 0041 / 99 ) , on behalf of the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs , on the 1999 annual debate on the area of freedom , security and justice ( Article 39 of the TEU ) . 
Mr President , 1999 was the year of the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam , of the communitisation of the Schengen Agreement and of the Extraordinary Tampere Council . 
These have been the most important moments in the Council ' s expression of its political will to establish an area of freedom , security and justice in the European Union . 
The Council has decided to draw up a charter of citizens ' rights - and we rejoice in this ; it has decided to implement Article 13 of the Treaty , combating all forms of discrimination and xenophobia , and it has decided to approximate the laws on conditions for admission and residence , as well as guaranteeing residents treatment which is fair and on an equal footing with the citizens of the Union . 
It has also reached a political agreement - and we congratulate them on this - on the initial proposals for civil cooperation . 
This has been the year in which policies on justice and home affairs have been provided with a Community framework . 
They have been put into the hands of a single Commissioner , Mr Antonio Vitorino , and we congratulate them on this as well . 
Furthermore , they have taken on the task of creating a " scoreboard " to verify the progress made in this area at Community level , but also - and this seems to me to be important - at the level of the Member States . 
We are pleased about this and we congratulate the Council on these decisions , despite the fact that , for this House , the Treaty of Amsterdam included one disappointment : that of delaying , for five years , our role , our ability to participate actively , to democratically control this area of freedom , security and justice , as well as the role taken in it by the Court of Justice . 
However , if , on verifying the progress made during 1999 , which is within the competence of this Parliament in accordance with the Treaty , we leave behind the stage of great declarations and look at the decisions actually taken and carried out , the scene looks considerably darker , Mr President . 
It is as if the Council had more than one face and two hands and what one signs up to , the other begrudges . 
Despite all the commitments made at the highest level , the Council did not manage to take the decisions which it had envisaged . 
Programmes multiply and overlap and there is no way of ascertaining levels of implementation and effectiveness or , at least , this Parliament is unable to do so . 
We have presented the Council with a series of questions and I know that it is the will of the Portuguese Presidency to answer each and every one of them . 
We hope that this presidency will mark the beginning of a change of attitude on the part of the Council towards this Parliament . 
I said that there was no consistency between the decisions taken by the Council and the policies actually carried out . 
There are doubts in my Group and doubts also persist in this House , for example , about something which should be good news : the incorporation of the Schengen Agreement into the Community framework . 
Schengen has been incorporated , as we said earlier , into the acquis , but it has been done with very little transparency . 
Not a single piece of information , nor a single consultation , has been addressed to Parliament during this process ; neither on the association of the United Kingdom , nor on the incorporation of Greece , nor on the negotiations with Norway and Iceland . 
The same is true with regard to immigration policy . 
We have amused ourselves with a pile of reports , but we have no idea what has happened to these initiatives ; they have disappeared . 
We hope that 2000 will be the year for action , in the same way that 1999 was the year for expectations . 
We hope that the Council will also make an effort to subject itself to the control of this Parliament . 
The Council has decided that justice and home affairs policy must form part of the structure of the Union . 
The Council can act in accordance with Parliament ' s decisions , or it can continue to miserably begrudge its association with the other institutions in this vitally important project . 
If it chooses the second approach , it must be aware that this presents risks and that it will weaken the basis on which the area of freedom , security and justice is built . 
Alternatively , it could accept the offer of an agreement amongst the institutions , in order to move forward in another way . 
Fulfil your obligations to Parliament in a generous spirit , thus preparing for the future . 
Provide the Commission with the necessary resources and recognition essential for it to carry out its work and for it to verify the real progress made at Community level and at the level of the Member States , and we will be - and the Council will be - able to deal with the decisions made at Tampere and move towards a Union which is freer , more just and more secure . 
Madam President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , it is rather moving for me to return to this House in my capacity as a Member of the Council . 
I was one of the first Portuguese Members of this House who , in 1986 , took the first steps towards the integration of Portugal into the European Union , and I have to say , Mr President - in - Office of the Council , ladies and gentlemen , that the experience I gained here , political experience , has been extremely important in my life , and that the information we gained and the contribution that we were all able to make towards building Europe definitely marked the years that I spent here , and indeed my life . 
So it is with some pride and satisfaction that I find myself here and able to meet up again with some of my colleagues from those days who are still in this House . 
The point I wish to make is that the Portuguese Presidency - to which the Minister for Justice , who is handling the field of justice and home affairs , and I myself both belong - wishes to usher in a new era with this Parliament , and to foster the relationship between the Council and Parliament . This will inevitably be influenced by my parliamentary experience in this House , and of course by the parliamentary experience of that great Member of our national Parliament who is now the Minister for Justice and my colleague . 
We gave an early signal when , before the start of the Portuguese Presidency , we met with the President and Vice - Presidents of the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs in Brussels . 
We were able to invite the Chairman of that committee , Mr Watson , and some members of the committee to come to Lisbon , and to present our views concerning the role of the Portuguese Presidency in this area to them . 
And we gave an undertaking then that I now want to repeat formally : during all meetings of the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs , a representative of the Council , at political level , not an official but a political representative of the Council , from one of our ' cabinets '  , will always be involved in the work of the committee . . . 
 ( Applause ) 
and whenever the committee thinks fit , and the Chairman requests it , I myself or my colleague , the Minister for Justice , will come to Brussels to take part in the work of the meeting . 
We will accordingly give the Chairman of the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs the provisional agendas for the Council meetings in March and May , to allow contact to be established beforehand on the subjects to be discussed in the Council . We will do this today . 
Turning to 1999 , we find ourselves in the special position of taking stock of the German and Finnish Presidencies . I would like to start by saying that , in addition to the replies that we shall be giving here to Mrs Terrón i Cusí , who has presented a proposal on behalf of her committee , we shall also be letting her have a written reply at the end of these discussions . 
Furthermore , I would like to say that the Council believes that 1999 was an important year in the field of justice and home affairs . 
Cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs was notable for the significant changes wrought by the Treaty of Amsterdam and , as a consequence , for the incorporation of Schengen into the Community framework . 
The German Presidency had an important task in this respect in achieving the transition from the Maastricht system to the Amsterdam system . 
Then there was the launching of Europol soon after the start of the Finnish Presidency , on 1 July 1999 . 
There was also a third notable event : the Tampere Summit , a European Council devoted exclusively to justice and home affairs . 
The Tampere Summit was marked by a new spirit and by a determination to put the area of freedom , security and justice at the top of the political agenda and to keep it there . 
The point that the Portuguese Presidency wishes to reiterate here is that we intend to keep issues connected with the area of freedom , security and justice at the top of the presidency ' s political agenda . 
As regards our replies to Mrs Terrón i Cusí , I shall try to respond to her questions on home affairs , and my colleague will then address the points relating to justice . 
As you know , the Schengen acquis applies in full to ten countries , and in the course of 2000 , work will be done with a view to reaching a decision on the acquis coming into force in Denmark , Finland and Sweden , and also in Iceland and Norway . 
The Secretary - General of the Council has published a collection of documents covering the entire Schengen acquis , pending publication in the Official Journal once all the translations are available . 
This collection is , at present , available in six languages and the remaining translations are nearing completion . 
Another issue I wish to raise concerns programmes in the field of immigration and asylum and how they apply to the CEECs . 
In March 1998 , the Council adopted the Odysseus programme , a programme of training , exchanges and cooperation in the fields of policy on asylum , immigration and crossing of external borders . 
It applies to the fifteen Member States of the Union and provides for applicant countries , and possibly third countries also , to be associated with it . 
This programme covers the period 1998 to 2002 , and the reference amount for its implementation is EUR 12 million . 
Applicant countries can be associated with projects selected by the management committee as long as this complies with the objectives of the programme . 
The financial envelope envisaged for 2000 is EUR 3 million . 
Under the 1999 programme , the Commission received 80 applications for finance , totalling EUR 7 . 5 million , against a budget for 1999 of EUR 3 million . 
The Commission proposed support for 35 projects , of which 12 were for EUR 50 000 and 23 for amounts over EUR 50 000 . 
With regard to the OISIN programme , and I am now referring to the 1997 budget year , projects were adopted for seminars , training , exchanges of officials , research and studies , and operational actions . 
Of 62 projects in all , seven included applicant countries . 
As regards SIS , the Schengen Information System , I am pleased to report that the Member States were very positive about its operation and use . 
The increase in the number of positive results demonstrates the efficiency of the system and there is a continuing increase in the number of reports . 
With a view to developing a customs information system , agreement was reached with the Commission on a system which will permit provisional application of the Convention on the Customs Information System as soon as a certain number of countries have ratified this convention . 
Mrs Terrón i Cusí also mentioned an interinstitutional agreement . 
I ought to comment on this final point once my colleague , the Minister for Justice , has spoken , but it is obvious that what I shall say is the result of an exchange of impressions within the Council , and in particular between the two of us . 
I referred earlier to a new relationship with the Commission and with Parliament , with a view to achieving closer links and providing Parliament with timely information on subjects to be discussed by the Council . I would now like to state before you here that we firmly intend to consult the European Parliament , not only in those cases stipulated by the Treaty , which we are obliged to do , but also to inform and consult Parliament whenever we believe that it is appropriate to widen this type of consultation , and when , in direct contact with the Commission , we believe that Parliament should be able to present its opinion . 
As regards information , we will communicate with Parliament on all matters which are important for establishing the area of freedom , security and justice . This partnership between the Council and Parliament , building on the Commission ' s role and the excellent work Commissioner Vitorino has always done , will make it possible for the Portuguese Presidency to represent a landmark in establishing this area of freedom , security and justice . 
 ( Sustained applause ) 
