Mr President , having devoted itself over the last 40 years to establishing a common internal market , the House now faces the major new task of creating an area of freedom , security and justice , a task which we will only be able to master successfully if all the institutions of the Union work together towards this ambitious goal with mutual respect and consideration for each other ' s competence . 
Commissioner Vitorino , although I would describe cooperation with you as harmonious and profitable , words have often failed me in the past when faced with the conduct which the Council has demonstrated towards us . 
It looked , as Mr Schulz once aptly said in committee , as if the Council understood the area of freedom , security and justice to mean an area in which the Council has free rein , security from Parliament and the right to do and order as it will . 
Minister Gomes , I have , of course , heard what you have said and I hope that cooperation will clearly improve in this respect during the Portuguese Presidency . 
I should like to raise three points which for us , as Members of the PPE Group , must be focal points when such an area is created . 
First : a common asylum law must be created and the burden of absorbing refugees must be distributed . 
The Council must start by at long last ensuring that EURODAC is adopted in order to create the basic requirement for classifying asylum seekers . 
As far as a European asylum law is concerned , a start was in fact made at Vienna and Tampere . 
Unfortunately , however , it has highlighted the difficulties rather than proposing solutions . 
I therefore call on the Council representatives to look beyond their national boundaries and bring about a uniform asylum procedure for the whole Union . 
Similarly , it cannot be right for just a few Member States willing to provide help to bear the entire burden of refugee misery on our continent . 
Agreement on burden sharing must therefore be at the top of the agenda . 
Secondly : the introduction of a Europe - wide fight against organised crime , including by Europol and Eurojust . 
The planned introduction of Eurojust is one of our significant successes from Tampere and must now be implemented forthwith . 
We welcome the fact that Europol has finally been able to start work . 
However , the Council should also bear in mind that , if we are to improve the effectiveness of the fight against crime , we do not only need to widen Europol ' s remit , as decided at Tampere ; we also need to increase the number of officers and extend its remit to operational activities . 
We are not just calling for more control , and more control over Europol ; our motto here is " Less is sometimes more ! " 
With most of Europol employees currently engaged in self - control for the purposes of data protection laws and questions being asked by 15 national parliaments , we may have a great deal of control , but it is inefficient control . 
We want less confusing control and more parliamentary control by the European Parliament , without hampering the work of Europol . 
At the same time , we support the establishment of a European police academy as suggested in Tampere as a step in the right direction . 
Thirdly : the extension to Parliament ' s rights in this context . 
If the establishment of such an area , in which the Union can also intervene in the basic rights of the citizens , is only decided by diplomats and bureaucrats , while the elected representatives of Europe are reduced to following developments like a rabbit watching a snake , then this area will not gain the acceptance of the citizens . 
There is therefore an urgent need to grant Parliament codecision rights in this respect and , as we have already said , to strengthen the principle of democratic control . 
We want an area of freedom , security and justice for the citizens of Europe , not against them . 
Mr President , I have nothing further to say to the Council . 
The previous speaker has quoted me from the last committee meeting and said it all ! 
Why does the Council find it so hard to work with us in creating an area of freedom , security and justice ? 
I find this question more and more worrying . 
Allow me to try and elucidate it a little from my point of view . 
The establishment of an area of freedom , security and justice hovers at the interface between the constituent elements of national sovereignty . 
The police and judicial policy are quite clearly elements of sovereignty , in other words sensitive political areas in the Member States , and shifting the interface of these and communitising these policies , i . e . delegating powers from the national capitals , from Lisbon , Berlin or Paris , to Brussels represents a transfer of power . 
Of course it is very , very difficult to break away from the executive forms which have been handed down to us , even if we recognise that police cooperation is necessary ; we can only fight international crime at European level . 
So we have to draw our conclusions and say that we need legal and organisational communitisation of the instruments available . 
As a result , the governments which need to do this and which recognise that need , also realise that , in implementing this , they are taking away their own powers . 
Then there is the European Parliament , which is also complicated . 
In the final analysis , however , we must find a way forward , because if we carry on as we have in the past , and with last year ' s experience , then what will happen is that the security debate and the debate about citizens ' rights will be marginalised in the national parliaments as a result of making it a half national , half European structure . 
It has not quite taken off in the European Parliament and the Council meets behind closed doors . 
If the establishment of an area of freedom , security and justice is kept secret , then we shall not win the citizens over to it . 
In other words , the stability of democracy is at stake if we discuss it . 
This is why I frequently get so worked up , but not over the Council of Ministers . 
Generally , they too are elected Members of Parliament : Mr Gomes , Mr Costa , Commissioner Vitorino , in principle we are all in the same boat . 
However , I should like to make an appeal to the Council apparatchiks . 
The following principle applies : He who prepares decisions , in this case the Council apparatchiks , anticipates the decisions , which is why the Council apparatchiks should demonstrate more democratic spirit . 
I should just like to mention another aspect briefly because I do not have much time . 
Scoreboard sounds like skateboard in German . 
I say therefore that we need a timetable which stipulates what must be implemented , when and by whom . 
This Vitorino plan is what we need : clear , precise projects with a clear , defined timetable . 
Mr Vitorino , whom I would like to thank for his speech , can give us that , provided that he has the necessary financial and human resources . 
Let us give him those resources , then he can get on with his job and we all stand to gain . 
I warmly welcome the fact that the Portuguese Presidency is making justice and home affairs one of its top priorities or jewels in the crown . 
I was also encouraged by Commissioner Patten ' s comments this morning about a rapid reaction fund for security crises . 
Perhaps that will end scandals like the failure of states to deploy in Kosovo the police they promised . 
I just want to highlight three areas among many where we need quick progress . 
The first is asylum . 
It is essential to establish a single European system , but one based on fairness , full respect for the Geneva Convention and decent reception conditions , including an end to routine detention . 
Decisions on asylum should take months - not years . 
The second area is that of freedom : freedom to move and reside wherever one wishes in the Union ; freedom of information ; freedom to vote for all who have European citizenship - and that includes not just Member State citizens but third country nationals . 
Let our citizens know that our common policies in justice and home affairs are about freedom , not just about repression . 
The last area I want to mention is convergence of civil and criminal justice systems . 
Eurosceptics claim that this is a threat to sovereignty , the end of the nation - state , and so on . 
But the case of the suspect wanted for questioning in connection with the murders of three women in France , including British student , Isabel Peake , who was thrown off a train , shows why we need mutual recognition . 
Arrested and released in Madrid , he is now being extradited after arrest in Lisbon . 
Whatever the Eurosceptics say , it is in all our interests to get cooperation in such matters . 
Finally , as has already been said , it is essential , and I hope that the IGC will cover this , to move to codecision with the European Parliament in these areas , with democratic and judicial scrutiny . 
Mr President , all I can say about 1999 is this : how wonderful to feel the Portuguese summer after the Finnish winter . 
I hope that it works out . 
The Tampere Summit was certainly an important milestone in 1999 for Europe , and for the area of freedom , security and justice in particular . 
Numerous questions are still outstanding . 
Answers are still awaited . 
Since Tampere , there has been an imbalance between positive action and mere declarations of intent . 
Regulations on nationality and the integration of people from third countries are still outstanding . 
On the other hand , quite specific action has been called for on the subject of safety of life . 
The creation of a Charter of Fundamental Rights will be one of the important projects in the immediate future . 
However , it is difficult to predict what the content of this charter will be and how it will be implemented legally when you think of the people who are not currently citizens of the Union . 
The Europol agreement has now officially entered into force . 
In Tampere , the question of granting operational powers was discussed . 
We continue to demand a review of the agreement in order to incorporate better parliamentary and judicial control . 
The agreement also attracts criticism with regard to EURODAC . 
Parliament has amended the contractual text . 
Care must be taken to ensure that the Council complies with Parliament ' s modus operandi . 
Unfortunately , no initiatives have yet materialised regarding other matters and we still await them . 
Europe as an area of freedom , security and justice has so far been an area with no clear regulation in important sectors . 
And yet we owe this to the citizens of Europe . 
Having listened to the justice and home affairs ministers , I am optimistic and I am assuming that we will succeed in the next six months . 
Mr President , Commissioner , the oral question tabled by Mrs Terrón i Cusí shows that this House is taking a firm stance . Indeed , six months after the election of this new Parliament , we should now be able to send a firm political message to the people of Europe . 
I believe that the Portuguese Presidency can contribute positively to this . 
We are all aware of the enormous expectations of our people with regard to freedom , security and justice , particularly social justice . 
Yet their lack of interest and involvement and sometimes even their distaste for all things political requires us to take specific action to tackle their problems . 
This is the sine qua non condition for reconciling the popular and political spheres . 
For Europe to become the symbol of peace and fraternity , we need a bold and generous policy to come to the aid of the most disadvantaged . 
A proper plan for fighting unemployment must be established for this is the scourge which is allowing the rise of racism , xenophobia , nationalism and extreme - right racist movements . 
We should remember that the most disadvantaged include immigrants and refugees . 
The virtually systematic conditions of detention and the criminalisation of asylum - seekers are no longer acceptable . 
All asylum - seekers must be entitled to a fair hearing and an appeal with suspensory effect . 
Last week , and somewhat by chance , I witnessed , at Roissy airport , a scene of rare violence in which two young women , admittedly illegal immigrants , were being returned to Conakry . 
They were treated like the worst criminals . 
They were stripped naked and dragged along the floor by their hair , surrounded by a horde of state security police . 
The Portuguese Presidency must put an end to this type of barbaric behaviour . 
Our role should be to accompany , reassure and assist those who are fleeing dictatorships . 
The Commission has proposed creating a European fund for refugees to which Parliament was favourably disposed . 
Instead of all this waffling about the budget granted to this fund , we could take the decision to set this up . 
The Presidency and the Council can realise what was incomprehensibly rejected in Tampere , even though this summit provided an important basis . 
Likewise , we cannot simply record the rise in xenophobic feelings in Europe and the increasingly common discrimination without taking wide - ranging action . 
The laws against racism must be harmonised . 
What direction do you intend to give to Article 13 of the EC Treaty ? 
What do you intend to do to promote equal treatment in wages for men and women ? 
How do you aim to eradicate homophobia , racism and sexism ? 
We must take the best from each of our countries . 
When six European countries have granted the right to vote , the President of this House can venture to extend this right to vote , and eligibility to participate in the municipal and European elections , to all people from outside the Community who have lived in Europe for more than five years . 
The regularisation of illegal immigrants in certain countries , including your own , must act as an example to others . These illegal immigrants nowadays constitute a plethora of vulnerable people at the mercy of slum landlords , an oppressed workforce subject to economic exploitation , rendering them modern - day slaves . 
In more general terms , this Presidency must start to change the behaviour and interaction of our people with minority groups and immigrants . 
Immigration is too often a synonym for insecurity and violence and purely repressive responses . 
How do you intend to make our people understand that , today like always , immigration is a source of social and cultural wealth with a role which is , and will remain , essential in the context of population ? 
What action do you intend to take to enhance the place of immigrants in our society and to guarantee proper protection for asylum - seekers ? 
Mr President , there is a great lack of transparency in the area of security , freedom and justice . 
The European Union is an economic powerhouse but we are not in a position to pontificate when it comes to our treatment of refugees . 
The level of racism in our society is terrifying . 
Ireland , for generations , sent her sons and daughters to places of safety throughout the world , but now when the Celtic tiger is providing wealth and prosperity beyond our expectations , we are showing a very ugly side to our character . 
Racism in Ireland is endemic . 
It has been a relative shock to our political leaders to find we must now take a share of the refugees that have been coming into the European Union for a long time . 
We are coming from behind in dealing with the issue and the government is doing its utmost to catch up . 
There is a willingness but fear pervades , and to assuage this fear we must find political and religious leadership not only in Ireland but throughout the European Union . 
Mr President , we take note that the excuse - making , reticent Presidency , which , in recent months , has prevented us from holding a debate such as the one we have been able to hold today , has come to an end . 
I totally agree with Mr von Boetticher and Mr Schulz ' s remarks , and truly believe that the European Parliament and the Court of Justice need to be more involved in the area of freedom , security and justice , without having to derogate from their own powers . 
Nevertheless , to avoid the customary circus , which every six months has us indiscriminately attacking the Presidency of the Council , maybe Parliament should find the courage to undertake incisive political action so that the next Intergovernmental Conference will decide to increase codecision with immediate effect and not wait for another five years . 
The two identical - sounding questions which are under discussion are , of course , underpinned by a mantra of the kind which , in recent years , has increasingly transformed politics into a type of ideology - fine - sounding , but pernicious . 
And our current EU mantra is AFSJ : Area for Freedom , Security and Justice . 
Behind this lies another ambition on the part of the Commission and of the Council and of the overwhelming majority of this House , namely to introduce such an area . 
And who is not in favour of security , freedom and justice ? 
The problem is just that this is not something the EU can introduce by means of legislative decrees and other supranational resolutions . 
Freedom , security and justice are the root system of any society , reflecting its history , corporate experience and political development . 
A system of this kind is not something the EU can introduce without society ' s sustaining damage as a result . 
But it is precisely here that we find the real rationale behind the mantra concerning security , freedom and justice . 
The agenda is not designed to secure justice for the citizen . 
That is already secured by means of the various national legal systems . 
The agenda is designed to transfer vital parts of society ' s criminal law , policy on crime and administration of justice to the EU ' s control . 
It is concerned with increased integration which , as part of a duplicitous package , involves increased repression and control . 
You just have to think of all the resolutions concerning Fort Europa , Schengen , Eurodac etc . Any democrat can spot two key problems . 
First of all , the initiatives which have been planned are completely unrealistic . 
How is it envisaged that the EU ' s institutions , which are already stretched well beyond their capacity , can bring the ambitious projects concerned to fruition ? 
Think of last year ' s deadly criticism of the Commission ' s lack of propriety , ethics and accountability . 
It also , of course , finds indirect expression in the question . 
But , secondly , the projects will put a strain on , indeed will be injurious to , the national democracies . 
As long as the EU revolved around the internal market , only the body was being attacked . 
Now , it is the soul . 
Mr President , today the people of Northern Ireland see a strange irony . 
We had Commissioner Patten speaking in this House in defence of freedom , security and justice and yet his report before the British House of Commons this afternoon , which has been accepted , will do away with the Royal Ulster Constabulary and its reserves and put the people of Northern Ireland of both religious sections into the hands of the terrorists . 
The IRA terrorists have not given up any of their weapons , nor have the loyalist terrorists , yet the police are being forced into a position where they will not have the power to resist the terrorist community . 
Let me just look at the figures from the day that the agreement was signed . 
In 1998 , we had 55 murders . 
In 1999 , we had 7 murders and that does not include the Omagh bomb where 29 were killed and 300 injured . 
Between 1998 and 1999 , loyalists assaulted and shot 123 people , while republicans assaulted and shot 93 people . 
Charges brought against loyalists in 1999 totalled 193 , while those against republicans totalled 97 . 
Since January 2000 , there have been six shootings by loyalists and two by republicans , loyalists have been involved in six serious assaults , one leading to another murder , while republicans have engaged in five serious assaults . 
Mr President , that situation cannot continue and needs remedying . 
Mr President , the Treaty of Amsterdam has set an important objective for the Union . 
This is a task which all MEPs , the Council and the Commission must take on during this legislature : the creation , as has been said already , of an area of freedom , security and justice . 
The Tampere Council , the motor and architect of this objective , has proposed certain goals , but five years , the time scale laid down for the implementation of Chapter IV of the Treaty , is too long to wait for the urgent solution which some problems require . 
My first point is that Parliament must not be excluded from the important decisions to be taken in this area and that its participation in the decision - making process must be guaranteed , especially with regard to this project which affects the citizens , as the Commissioner has explained very well . 
My second point is that we must make rapid progress in the adoption of a common asylum system , adopting common procedural rules and , above all , putting an end to the current confusion between migration for political reasons and migration for economic reasons . 
The recent laws on aliens adopted in my country , Spain , and in Belgium , are a reminder that there is an urgent need for the communitisation of immigration policy . 
My third and final point relates to the external activities of the Union in the field of immigration and asylum . 
We must not and cannot give the impression that the Union exclusively wishes to defend itself from an avalanche of refugees and economic migrants . 
We must opt for a policy of cooperating in the development of our neighbouring countries in the East and the Mediterranean area , but we must do so with rigour , with economic means and in close collaboration with public institutions , which must cooperate in the protection of those citizens whose most basic rights are violated or who wish to emigrate in order to meet their most essential needs . 
Finally , in relation to the Charter of Fundamental Rights , the citizens of Europe need to have a vision of citizenship . 
The Euro , employment , even security , are not enough . 
They need a ' European soul '  , as a distinguished Spanish professor once said . 
Mr President , unlike some of the previous speakers , I want to go back to the words of our Portuguese ministers and Mr Vitorino . 
This trio ' s words were like music to our ears as Mr Ceyhun has said . 
As with all music it needs to be a fine tune and properly orchestrated . 
Many of us of here are very optimistic about the next six months . 
The tune that will be played will be one that the people of Europe will be listening to and they will want to hear the right sort of tune . 
As described this afternoon it will go a long way towards drowning out some of the unpleasant tunes we heard during the European election and over the last few months . 
The Amsterdam Treaty and the Tampere Council built on this project for an area of freedom , security and justice in the European Union . 
One area though is extremely important , and this House must be involved in it : namely scrutiny . 
There is so much legislation - and I very much welcome the Portuguese programme that was outlined to us last week - but we need to be absolutely sure that it is scrutinised , that the people in this Parliament and the members of the national parliaments and the citizens of Europe are aware of everything involved in it . 
And we must make certain that the details are applicable , appropriate and relevant to the different countries . 
I should like to draw attention to some of the aspects of the resolutions before us this afternoon , one or two of which were referred to earlier on . 
I welcome the movement towards the recognition of judicial systems in the various countries and the cooperation on crime . 
That is an area that European citizens will respond to and will be happy about . 
But the Commission and Council must know that there are many people in this House who have reservations about the Eurodac system , for example . 
We accept the predominant role of the Council in this , but there are reservations and I am sure that the Council will listen to the words coming from the elected parliamentarians here when they go through it in more detail . 
Mr Schulz said earlier on that he was not certain about the definition of ' scoreboard '  . 
Anyone who is English or British or follows cricket knows what a scoreboard is . 
A scoreboard tells people the score ; it has to be up - to - date and it has to be clear and visible . 
I am sure that Commissioner Vitorino will make certain that is so . 
At the end of six months I hope that the music is still playing and that the European people are still listening . 
Mr President , I would like to welcome the President - in - Office and his colleague from the Justice Ministry , Mr Costa , and to thank them for the welcome they gave my committee in Lisbon last week and the constructive meetings we enjoyed . 
Amsterdam and Tampere have given us much work to do together , as the excellent draft resolution by Mrs Terrón today shows . 
I would like to make three brief points . 
The first is that we need a mature dialogue between the Council and the European Parliament . 
It is barely six months since Amsterdam imposed a duty on our two organisations to work together ; we have been sizing each other up , we have had a few minor spats , but we need to work effectively together . 
Let us stop the shadow - boxing . 
Let us drop the elaborate charades and let us respect the duties that the Treaties impose on us and the timescales allowed for full democratic debate . 
Involve us please in your discussions on both policy and process . 
Let us not pretend that national parliaments are able to exercise effective democratic control of government activities in this area . 
My second point is that we need a properly resourced Commission . 
We have established a new Directorate - General , yet it has only 70 people all told . 
There is an agreement to double this number , but I understand that , so far , not a single new person has arrived . 
We are setting the Commission a massive task , not least in the drawing up of the scoreboard . 
The Council and Parliament must work together to provide the resources that the Commission needs . 
Finally , on the content of the debate , I welcome the fact that the presidency has put the area of freedom , security and justice at the top of its agenda . 
All good things come in threes , especially in our policy area . 
Two hundred years ago it was liberty , equality and fraternity , and things went along very well until the governments of the left raised equality above the others . 
Now it is freedom , security and justice , and I hope that the current governments of the left will heed the words of Commissioner Vitorino and resist the temptation to elevate security , important as it is , above the equally important needs of freedom and justice . 
Although the main achievements in the construction of an area of freedom , security and justice should be mentioned , we must remember that there is still room for progress . 
The role of the Court of Justice is still too limited and communitisation is incomplete . 
The unilateral decision by Belgium to re - establish border controls is a clear illustration of this . 
The decision to establish a Charter of Fundamental Rights is to be welcomed but it is difficult to predict whether its content and legal scope will be restrictive or symbolic , including all people , whatever their nationality , or excluding some . 
The total lack of progress in European citizenship and the political rights of all European residents is to be regretted . 
Although action plans established by the high - level working group aim to limit migratory flows in the future , these plans do nothing to improve human rights , civil liberties and the economic situation in the countries concerned . 
We know that readmission clauses are included in the cooperation and association agreements . Yet these represent a serious threat to the principle of ' non - refoulement '  [ no turning back ] . 
Furthermore , it should be noted that these provisions were adopted within the Council by a procedure without debate and without consulting Parliament . 
However , the main concern remains . . . 
 ( The President cut the speaker off ) 
Mr President , I would like to join my colleagues in welcoming the representatives of the Council as well as the Commissioner . 
I thank them for their statements to the House . 
Rather than go back over the areas that have already been covered I would like to deal with one specific topic : the question of drugs and how we tackle the pervasiveness of the drug culture in our societies . 
I look to the Portuguese Presidency in particular to build on some of the tremendous work which was done by the Finnish Presidency in bringing forward coordinated plans and action between the Member States . 
We already have , on the international side , plans in place to combat drug trafficking , money laundering and so on . 
But to bring it down to a more human level : to give assistance to those people who are trying to come off drugs , and give them proper controls and proper mechanisms for rehabilitation ; secondly , to coordinate amongst the police forces and the judiciary with regard to common penalties and common laws ; thirdly , to undertake an information and awareness campaign for young people ; and once and for all to put an end to these very dangerous words of " normalisation " and " harm reduction " and show that any weakening of our resolve in making sure that drugs are not legalised must be for the good of all our people . 
Mr President , I would like to use the few seconds of speaking time to which I am entitled to point out , or remind , the representative of the Commission that , in Belgium , the government is currently pursuing a policy under which thousands and possibly tens of thousands of illegal aliens are being legalised and are to receive permanent right of residence , right to be reunited with their families , etc . 
This is a Belgian government measure which flies in the face of the Schengen Treaty . 
I lodged a written complaint on the same subject to Commissioner Vitorino on 23 December . 
I would ask him to take this complaint into consideration and inform me , within the foreseeable future , of the steps the Commission will take to penalise this violation of the Schengen Treaty by the Belgian State , in accordance with Article 226 of the Treaty . 
Mr President , esteemed gentlemen from Portugal , especially the Council representatives , you face great expectations on our part . 
I should like to give you an example of one way in which you can meet these expectations relatively quickly in at least one small segment . 
I refer to Eurodac . 
You will remember that we decided with great expectations here in the European Parliament in December that Eurodac would become a reality as a regulation and as a system , as a Community instrument which we urgently need in order to prevent multiple asylum applications , in order to have an instrument to fight illegality and , above all , in order to set out clearly which Member State was responsible for implementing the asylum procedure . 
We voted clearly in favour of the introduction of this instrument , together with an implementation committee , which would be attached to the Commission in just the same way that a corresponding database would be . 
We were of the opinion that EURODAC was becoming a reality . 
Even in Tampere , we were of the opinion that Eurodac was becoming a reality . 
However , the Council then took another direction at the very next summit in December and took a huge step backwards by deciding what we had absolutely rejected , i . e . that the Council should continue to be responsible for implementation , that the regulatory committee would be attached to the Council and that , where possible , Gibraltar would still be used to exert pressure . 
This is a perfect example of the sort of work we do not want to see . 
My urgent request on behalf of the Group is that you do everything to ensure that Eurodac is implemented immediately as an instrument to fight asylum abuse and illegality and as an instrument to speed up asylum procedures . 
If you tell us today how you wish to proceed , you will be doing us a great service . 
Mr President , Ministers , Commissioner , the 1999 harvest of decisions was indeed rich , so much so that it became difficult to gather , i . e . to put those decisions into practice . 
I refer in particular to the Council and to the inertia of the Member States in implementing the decisions they had jointly made . 
However , the past year was positively marked by some momentous decisions , such as the decision to begin implementing the Treaty of Amsterdam , the decision to incorporate the Schengen Agreement into the Community pillar , and the decision of the Cologne Council to create a Charter of Fundamental Rights and the decision of the Extraordinary European Council in Tampere to bind the Member States to common directions , priorities and goals with a view to creating a common area of freedom , security and justice . 
Without wishing to ignore the progress which has been made , we , the European Parliament , would like to draw your attention to the unwillingness on the part of the Council to implement these decisions in many areas , as well as its lack of common vision and , in particular , the lack of transparency and cooperation with the European Parliament . 
From what I have said , it must be obvious to you that the European Parliament is not prepared to simply play the role of observer . 
Neither will it stop raising vital issues . For example , how much progress are you willing to make and what measures , legislative or otherwise , will you be taking to combat the scourge of trafficking in human beings , child pornography on the Internet , drugs , and organised crime ? 
Do you intend to press for a common policy for asylum and immigration ? 
How do you intend to go about integrating immigrants into the Community , reuniting them with their families and recognising their rights and duties on an equal footing with those of the citizens of Europe ? 
In light of this new international demographic class portrayed by experts at the UN , is it not about time you abandoned your traditional , conservative views on refugees and immigrants ? 
I have great expectations for the Portuguese Presidency . 
Mr President , I welcome much , indeed most , of what has been said in this debate . 
But I want to add a word of caution . 
We risk having not too few charters of rights in this Community , but too many : national , European Union and European Convention ; not too few tribunals having the final say about our rights but possibly too many - there is the Court across the river there , there is the Court in Luxembourg . 
There are also courts in Karlsruhe , London , Lisbon , Dublin and Edinburgh . 
We must make sure that what we do makes clear sense . 
We must not generate a confusion and conflict of jurisdictions about rights , for that would be the enemy of freedom , justice and security . 
We need , in short , to have and to sustain the highest possible common standards and to find ways of securing these . 
But we must look always to subsidiarity . 
Like everybody in this House , I want freedom , justice and security . 
I do not want to see these degenerate into over - centralisation , chaos and confusion . 
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , I would very quickly like to make one point . 
Various Members raised questions about the Portuguese Presidency . 
The President of Parliament has made us aware of the very limited time at our disposal , and my colleague , the Minister for Justice , and I therefore propose to reply objectively to all the questions put here at the parliamentary committee meeting which we shall be attending next week . 
 ( Sustained applause ) 
Thank you , Minister . 
The debate is closed . 
