Mr President , I am grateful for the Council ' s oral , and also written , reply . 
Their efficiency has been truly remarkable . 
I will save a few seconds because I wanted to propose to the Council that we continue the debate at the next meeting of the Committee on Citizens ' Rights and Freedoms , Justice and Home Affairs . Then we will have the opportunity to comment on these replies and to express our concerns to the Commission as well . 
Personally , I am pleased with some of the replies , for example , in relation to issues as sensitive as Schengen and the Europol Convention , which we hope will be reviewed , and I am pleased with the words of the Minister for Justice with regard to trying to bring them under the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities . 
I also hope that the same is done in relation to parliamentary control . 
Representatives of the Council , within the next month we are going to table a motion for a resolution in this Parliament . 
I am sure that , with the willingness that you have shown today , the first thing you will do , in this new climate of understanding between us , will be to take account of the motion for a resolution which we will submit to you . 
Question Time ( Council ) 
The next item is Question Time ( B5 - 0003 / 2000 ) . 
We will examine questions to the Council . 
Question No 1 by ( H - 0780 / 99 ) : 
Subject : Construction of nuclear plant in earthquake - prone Turkey The two recent earthquakes in Turkey registering more than 7 on the Richter scale raise tremendous doubts about Turkey ' s persistence with the construction of costly nuclear reactors at Akkuyu , while energy reserves produced by the Atatürk dams are exported to third countries and the EU spends a slice of its budget on repairing the damage wrought by the earthquakes . 
Turkey ' s nuclear plans B which ignore the risks to the population and ecosystems of Turkey and the surrounding region B prompt the suspicion that there are underlying plans previously determined by Turkey ' s political and military leaders to acquire nuclear technology enabling them to build nuclear weapons , as evidenced by their attempts to buy reactors of Canadian origin of the type acquired by India and Pakistan . 
What steps will the Council take to prevent nuclear accidents and the proliferation of nuclear weapons in a country that wishes to join the EU but spends enormous amounts on nuclear programmes while receiving financial aid from the EU budget ? 
