Mr President , the Council wishes to point out that Turkey is a signatory to the Convention on Nuclear Safety , the objectives of which should allay the fears expressed by Mr Souladakis . 
The aim of this convention , which came into force on 24 October 1996 , is precisely to achieve and maintain a high standard of nuclear safety at world level by means of national measures and through international cooperation . It further aims to ensure that nuclear installations are equipped with continuing protection against potential radiological risks , so as to protect individuals , society at large and the environment against the harmful effects of the ionising radiation that can be emitted by such installations . 
The convention , as you will be aware , also covers the prevention of accidents which have radiological effects and the limitation of such effects when incidents of this kind occur . 
I would also like to remind Members that , as a candidate for membership of the European Union , Turkey will - and this is a pre - accession condition , which is an important point - sooner or later , as part of its own pre - accession strategy , have to adopt a set of policies geared towards adopting the entire acquis communautaire in good time , and including therefore all provisions already in force on nuclear safety . 
Thank you for your answer . 
However , I would just like to add the following . Turkey is only looking to increase its energy potential by 2 % with this unit . 
Nevertheless , rumour has it that it plans to buy Candu reactors of the type acquired by Pakistan and India which were used for nuclear weapons . 
In this respect , the issue requires closer examination , because the sensitive situation in the Caucasus region could heighten people ' s suspicions . 
My second point concerns the safety of these plants . In areas of high seismic risk , it is not enough just to have secure , earthquake - proof buildings . 
Speaking as an engineer , I can tell you that we carry out tests to investigate the effects of certain risk factors in extreme circumstances . 
However , we cannot carry out tests on nuclear plants which are in operation ; it is just not possible . 
With this in mind , it goes without saying that nuclear plants a priori should not be built in areas prone to earthquakes . 
In this respect , and because Turkey is situated on the periphery of the European Union , we should be helping it to become a more secure , peaceful and cooperative country . 
That is our role and this is the point of my question . 
I recognise the relevance of the arguments that Mr Souladakis has put forward . 
This is , of course , a highly sensitive issue . 
Furthermore , it will be evident that this is a matter that does not only affect Turkey , in view of that country ' s proximity to the existing territory of the European Union . It also affects other states neighbouring the EU with which we maintain relations . 
We understand your concerns and will certainly take account of them , particularly during the discussions that we will be having with Turkey to define that country ' s own pre - accession strategy agenda . 
This question will naturally be one of our key concerns , and the European Commission will not fail to take this into account . 
Thank you , Mr President and thank you President - in - Office of the Council . 
I am sure the President - in - Office of the Council is a very nice man and is very kind to his wife and his children and his dog . 
However , forgive me if I am a little sceptical of the reply you have just given me . 
I do not believe that the statements made within the Council and the votes are available to the public immediately . 
Will you please therefore undertake , before the next plenary in February , to write and tell me where I can find this information on behalf of the public , immediately the Council has passed legislation , rather than waiting for it to come out weeks later on a press release list . 
Will you write to me before the next plenary with that information ? 
Mr Newton Dunn , I would first like to say that I do not appreciate the kind of personal comments with which you started your second question , and I would be grateful if you could refrain from making such comments in future . 
With regard to what you were saying , it makes me think that the criticism levelled at the Council , apart from being formulated in a very specific way of which we also take note , does not actually refer to the opacity , shall we say , of the legislative process , but rather almost to an excess of transparency . 
However , I would like to say , Mr Newton Dunn , that the results of this kind of process for transparency are quite obvious to us and we consider them to be unquestionable . 
We have no problem , Mr Newton Dunn , in repeating this information to you in writing , but we will not be able to go any further than what has been said here , because that meets the requirements of the Treaty exactly . 
We therefore consider that the General Secretariat of the Council is at present making available to the public all essential information regarding the Council ' s functions as a legislative body . 
I do not consider that the Council tried to answer my question . 
I did not ask what the Council thought of the proposal which the Commission has still not tabled . 
Instead , my question concerns the interpretation in principle of Article 255 of the Treaty of Amsterdam . 
Does this permit legislation also to be passed concerning national laws on transparency and not only in connection with the three institutions of the European Union referred to there ? 
I should like to have an answer to that question . 
Does the Council consider that , on the basis of Article 255 of the Treaty , national legislation on transparency can be regulated , that is to say legislation not relating to the EU ' s institutions ? 
Mr Sjöstedt , the answer that I gave was the only answer possible . 
Nevertheless , I would like to say that any interpretation of Article 255 of the Treaty must also be linked to the principle of subsidiarity . 
At the moment , there are no concrete proposals which would allow us to make adjustments under this Article , and unless there is such a proposal , we cannot move forward on this matter . 
In any event , Article 255 does not , at first sight , allow work to be done on any basis that could affect the principle of subsidiarity . 
I am , up to a point , concerned about how the Council will fight for the principles contained in the Treaty of Amsterdam and whose purpose is to ensure that citizens have a better opportunity to participate in the decision - making process . 
How is this to be done when , at the same time , the Commission ' s proposal - which has been leaked , so the general public is aware of it - says that employees ' freedom of thought comes before transparency and that it is not possible to have access to working documents , reports , drafts etc ? 
Does not the Council ' s representative think that this makes it difficult to participate in the democratic decision - making process ? 
Mrs Frahm , the question that you raised is extremely important and we discussed it at great length during the last Intergovernmental Conference . 
I would like to say that transparency does not only apply from the Community institutions " outwards "  , it also applies between the institutions . 
By this I mean that there are aspects of the form and procedure of the Community institutions ' workings which are not accessible to the other institutions , and not only as regards the Commission ' s relationship with Parliament , but also as regards the Commission ' s relationship with the Council . 
As a matter of fact , at the last conference , this issue was raised and discussed on several occasions . 
The European Parliament will have the opportunity to take part in the preparatory group for the next Intergovernmental Conference . 
The matter is still open . 
Genuine transparency of the institutions ' workings and the way they are presented throughout Europe is an extremely important issue and one which , in my opinion , needs to be studied again , particularly in the context of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference . We have no doubts about this and we think that the Members taking part in this preparatory group will have an opportunity to raise this issue again . 
I believe that the Commission ' s proposal should make provision for greater transparency in terms of the way the various institutions function , but I think that there is always room for improvement in this matter . 
For our part , we are prepared to study any proposals made in this area . 
It is a very important question indeed which Jonas Sjöstedt and others have asked . 
We have a principle of transparency in Sweden which strengthens democracy and ensures that there is a worthwhile dialogue between citizens , decision makers and authorities . 
We are very anxious indeed that the EU , too , should move in this direction , and this is also stated in the Treaty of Amsterdam . 
One or two years ago , Parliament adopted a report by Mrs Lööw which is extremely important in this context . 
The report warned that the forthcoming process would lead to restrictions upon the transparency of the Member States . 
We can now see that there is perhaps some reason for this warning from Parliament . 
I want to ask the Council if it understands this warning , in view of what we have now seen in the working documents from the Commission . 
I listened very carefully to what Mr Seixas da Costa had to say on transparency and the Intergovernmental Conference . 
My concern is , if I have understood Mr Seixas da Costa correctly on the interesting points he made as regards transparency and the IGC , whether the Portuguese Presidency will take on the commitment to tackle the issue of widening the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference . 
After all , examining the issue of transparency in the ways the institutions operate should never be hidden away under any old heading or confined to some lobby or other - though I know full well the importance of these lobbies . 
It should have its own heading in the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference , which would mean widening the agenda . 
Mr Dimitrakopoulos , transparency is naturally an issue of concern to the institutions . 
This Intergovernmental Conference will , at the outset , concentrate on improving the way the institutions operate , particularly taking account of the desire we all share for them specifically to become more democratic , more transparent and more efficient . 
All of this must nevertheless be done whilst respecting a broad framework - that of the overall acceptability of any solutions we may devise to achieve these three aims . 
It is obvious that transparency will be a permanent fixture on the European agenda and it will , of course , feature on the agenda of this Intergovernmental Conference . 
I can assure you that this is an issue which the Portuguese Presidency will keep before the Member States and the representatives of the preparatory group for the conference . 
It must therefore be able to count on the support of the Members of the European Parliament , who will surely rally behind this proposal . 
We will then see , at ministerial level , how we can follow this up . 
It should nevertheless be noted that we have just concluded the Treaty of Amsterdam , which was approved last May , and that there is a raft of implementing measures on transparency which are still in progress . The question is whether it is premature or not to start a new initiative on the subject of transparency . 
My feeling is that , in spite of everything , this issue will always have to be on the agenda , because the public is clearly concerned about it , and because it is linked with the need to make the European institutions accountable to the public . 
As far as we are concerned , they will be . 
We shall try to achieve a consensus on this matter . 
Question No 5 by ( H - 0785 / 99 ) : 
Subject : Proposal for a regulation laying down the total admissible catches for specific fish populations for the year 2000 , and the case of anchovies in particular The latest reports from the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea indicate that the current level of anchovy stocks in ICES zone VIII is critical . 
Have the Council of Fisheries Ministers and the Commission assessed the impact of transferring the Portuguese quota for ICES zones XI and X and CECAF zone 34 . 1 . 1 to France ( 5000 metric tonnes per year overfishing ) on the ICES zone VIII anchovy stocks and their responsibility for the current situation of the anchovy stocks and the possible social and economic impact on this fisheries sector in the future ? 
Does the Council believe that it is permissible to consolidate future overfishing which violates the originally established TAC of 33 000 metric tonnes per year , given the current evidence for the critical state of anchovy stocks ? 
What measures does the Council intend to adopt , and when , with a view to taking proper account of the critical state of anchovy stocks , the aforesaid quota transfer and the principle of relative stability ? 
Mr President , the Portuguese Presidency is extremely anxious to give a comprehensive answer to this question , particularly because it broaches an issue which concerns Portugal in a positive way , and I shall explain how . 
The Council is aware of the critical level of anchovy stocks in the Bay of Biscay to which Mr Ortuondo Larrea refers . 
Nevertheless , at the last Fisheries Council of 1999 , held on 16 and 17 December , the Member States involved in this area of fishing , namely France , Spain and Portugal , considered that applying the precautionary principle which sets a TAC reduced from 5 000 tonnes to 2 000 tonnes , as the Commission proposed , was excessively cautious . 
A compromise solution was therefore reached in order to achieve a balance between the need to reduce the biological risks , that is the species of fish being affected , and the socio - economic problems caused by fishing limits . This was achieved by fixing the TAC at an intermediate level of 16 000 tonnes instead of the 33 000 set in 1999 . 
It was also stipulated that this would be revised in the light of new scientific information on preserving species , of which we hope to see examples in the first six months of this year . 
As for the Southern stocks of anchovy in ICES zone IX , the TAC was fixed at 10 000 tonnes for the whole of 2000 as opposed to 13 000 tonnes in 1999 . 
Fishing quota transfers between Portugal and France were reduced proportionally from 5 008 tonnes in 1999 to 3 000 tonnes in 2000 , for fishing in French waters . 
I would like to state that this transfer will not increase the pressure of fishing on anchovy stocks overall , over the whole Community fishing area . 
In accordance with the principle of relative stability , 90 % of stocks of anchovy in the Bay of Biscay are allocated to Spain and only 10 % to France . 
Without this transfer from Portuguese waters , the level of the Bay of Biscay TAC would have to be multiplied by ten in order to grant adequate catches to France . 
That is why I think that this is quite positive from Portugal ' s point of view . 
This situation would obviously be even more damaging to the level of stocks than the risk referred to by Mr Ortuondo Larrea , which we also understand . 
Mr President - in - Office of the Council , I must say that your comments have not satisfied me at all . 
I understand that Portugal is affected by this . 
However , it seems to go against all reason and intelligence that 80 % of the anchovies , which , until 1995 , were being fished in the Portuguese fishing grounds , through an agreement between that Member State - Portugal - and France , should now be fished in the Bay of Biscay and that the Council of Ministers wishes to maintain that this has no effect on the anchovy stocks in the Bay of Biscay or the Cantabrian Sea . 
It has been shown , as we have been claiming since 1995 , that this move is appalling , and , if Portugal and France wish to reach an agreement , that is fine by us , but these anchovies should be fished in Portuguese fishing grounds and not in the Bay of Biscay . 
Today , scientific studies show that the anchovy population in the Bay of Biscay is in danger of extinction , and now there will be measures to restrict the amount of anchovy which can be fished in that Bay . 
I do not know if you are aware , representatives of the Council of Ministers , of your responsibility over these last few years , and in 2000 as well , for the plight of the families who live on anchovy fishing in the north of the Iberian Peninsular . 
I would like to say , Mr Ortuondo Larrea , that in its judgement of 5 October 1999 , the European Court of Justice ruled that this transfer , which was approved , was in accordance with the principles laid down in Council Regulation 37 / 60 / 92 and , specifically , with its Article 9 ( 1 ) , which stipulates that Member States may exchange all or part of the fishing rights that they have been allocated . 
The Court also stated that the principle of relative stability had not been violated since the anchovy quota allocated to Spain in zone VIII had been maintained at 90 % and France ' s at 10 % . 
Apart from this , Mr Ortuondo Larrea , the Court is of the opinion that the transfer effected between Portugal and France does not violate the principle of exploiting living sea and freshwater resources in a rational and responsible way , on the grounds that the fishing pressure in zones VIII and IX neither increases nor adversely affects the overall quota of these resources allocated to Spain . 
Accordingly , Mr Ortuondo Larrea , the Council reiterates its opinion that without this transfer , greater account would be taken of France ' s possibilities for anchovy fishing in the Bay of Biscay . 
The Council therefore reiterates its opinion that fishing pressure would be greater and more damaging to population numbers than the solution which was eventually chosen . 
In concrete terms , 3 000 tonnes represent 57 . 5 % of Portugal ' s fishing opportunities in 2000 against 5 008 tonnes or 73 . 9 % in 1999 . 
These numbers represent , in our opinion and in the opinion of the Council , a real improvement in terms of conservation in comparison with the level of 80 % laid down in Council Regulation 685 / 95 . 
Question No 6 by ( H - 0788 / 99 ) : 
Subject : Measures to combat the continuing ethnic cleansing of Serbs and Romanies in Kosovo On 2 December 1999 , NATO ' s Defence Ministers made a strong appeal for an end to the ethnic cleansing of Kosovo ' s minority communities . 
In its resolution referring to specific atrocities committed against Serbs and Romanies , Parliament also vigorously condemns the continuing violence against the Serb population and calls on the leaders of the Kosovo Albanians to fully respect UN Resolution 1244 . 
The resolution also stresses that previous persecution of the Albanians cannot constitute a pretext for killings , abductions , detentions , intimidation , arson , looting , destruction of property and the taking - over of houses etc . 
In the light of the above , will the Council reconsider the funding for the reconstruction of Kosovo , as requested by Parliament ? 
What other practical measures will it take to put a stop to ethnic cleansing ? 
Mr Alavanos , I would like to say that I have the greatest sympathy for the concern underlying the issue you have raised . 
We genuinely share your concerns about the threatening situation which exists in Kosovo for ethnic minorities , for both the Serb and Romany populations , and the incidents of discrimination , harassment and intimidation which continue to take place in that region . 
The Council has always stressed the need to seek prosecution of all those who have perpetrated such acts and of those who continue to perpetrate such acts . 
The Council once again reiterated the need , in its December conclusions , to fully implement Security Council resolution 12 / 99 and has consistently supported Bernard Kouchner ' s efforts to implement measures to guarantee effective protection of minorities in the region and , in particular , to guarantee that measures facilitating the preservation of the region ' s multi - ethnic make - up are effectively implemented . 
In our contacts with senior political figures amongst the Kosovo Albanians , we have stressed - and the Portuguese Prime Minister did this very recently - that persecution of the Serb population , the Romany population and other ethnic groups is totally unacceptable . 
It will not be tolerated , and must stop immediately . 
It has been communicated explicitly and repeatedly to Kosovar leaders that international support will depend to a large extent on the way non - Albanian minorities are treated . 
I think that this is an extremely important point : this sense of conditionality , which underlies the European Union ' s position , is being maintained by the Council and will continue to be maintained . 
We have fully supported the efforts of the United Nations mission and the international security forces in Kosovo to prevent further outbreaks of violence against minorities and to protect the populations under threat . 
KFOR and the UNMIC police consider one of their two main tasks to be preventing any form of maltreatment on the grounds of a person ' s ethnic origin . 
The Council therefore expressed its satisfaction , in its December conclusions , at the substantial contributions announced by the European Commission , which will indirectly assist in returning the situation to normal , together with similar contributions made by Member States . 
Nevertheless , Mr Alavanos , the Council is also aware that the total amount of resources made available to the appropriate international organisations in Kosovo does not match the desired amount , in terms of what the various Member States have been able to raise , and this has limited the real ability of these organisations to act on the ground . 
We shall nevertheless continue to devote all our attention to this problem because the entire credibility of the authorities and of the organisations representing Albanians in the region also depends on the ability of these organisations to prove themselves capable of implementing measures which will guarantee the region ' s multi - ethnic nature . 
I would like to thank Mr President - in - Office of the Council . 
I believe - as I think we all do - that Portugal , its former president , Mr Soares , and its government , maintained a cautious and middle - of - the - road stance during the bombings in the Balkans . 
Today ' s political statement on this issue was very positive indeed , and one which I welcome . 
However , there is some concern over the lack of progress made despite the good and honest intentions expressed by the European Union . 
Unfortunately , we have recently witnessed the eradication of Serb , Romany , Turkish , and Croatian minorities in Kosovo and we are now wondering what will happen next . 
The United Nation ' s , and Mr Kouchner ' s , mission in Kosovo ended in failure . 
This failure is illustrated by the fact that after an entire war that was waged to put an end to ethnic cleansing , we now have ethnic cleansing from the opposite side . 
And so I would like to repeat my question as to whether the Council intends to take more specific action to debate these issues with Mr Kouchner , who has a major responsibility for the situation in Kosovo today . 
Mr Alavanos , I cannot agree with what you just said in your last sentence on Mr Kouchner ' s responsibilities , and I would like to make two very important points here . The structure being implemented in Kosovo is under the auspices of the United Nations . 
It is a structure to which the European Union has given as much support as it can and to which the countries of the European Union have contributed in various ways . 
There is one thing , however , that we cannot deny , and that is that Mr Kouchner ' s efforts to return Kosovo ' s internal situation to normal have been extremely positive . 
This is undeniable , even if you - or indeed we - consider that some of the results of these efforts , for reasons beyond Mr Kouchner ' s control , have not been as effective as we would all have liked them to be . 
I have one last point to make , which is about the European Union ' s responsibility and , specifically , in this case , about possible action by the Council in this matter , and the responsibility of the international community , which has overall responsibility for the situation in Kosovo . 
Therefore , the responsibility of the European Union has to be seen in a certain context . 
It is the international community , and specifically the United Nations , which should be held responsible for implementing Resolution 12 / 99 and , in particular , for the thinking behind this resolution and for the compatibility of this resolution with reality . 
These are questions which we should all be asking , but the forum for putting these questions is the United Nations . 
Mr President , Mr President - in - Office of the Council , I heartily welcome the fact that you have said that you wish to improve structures , in the aim of improving the credibility of the authorities . 
I think that we need to consider how we can best present this to the general public . 
The question which I therefore ask myself is this : has in fact a start been made on how we can promote the media in this area , how we can train journalists and how we can improve information to the public on peaceful coexistence ? 
We have endeavoured to provide material help . 
We have tried to defend peace by taking military action . 
What is the situation now as regards efforts to include psychological criteria in this crisis area and provide the best possible support here ? 
Mr Rübig , as I said , I understand your concerns very well . 
I think that , at the moment , particularly in the last few months , there have been some positive developments in terms of the resources that will be available to Mr Kouchner , in order for him to be able to do his job efficiently . 
I heard Mr Kouchner speak at the Council of Europe ministerial meeting on this issue , and I think that many of the concerns he expressed then about the lack of resources needed to overcome some of the problems have now been addressed . In other words , he has been given these resources . 
There are two fundamental questions in particular . 
Firstly , an increase in police numbers would be an important factor in guaranteeing the safety of the civilian population and , in particular , in protecting certain sections of the civilian population . Secondly , an increase in appropriations would allow some officials who have important roles in the administrative and operational process in Kosovo to be kept on . 
The issue which we should all raise , and I did so myself , in a diplomatic way , a while ago , concerns the very substance of Security Council Resolution 12 / 99 . 
I know that this is an extremely delicate issue , but we should all be questioning the logic behind this resolution and its chances of being implemented . 
We advocate that it should be implemented in its entirety . 
Nevertheless , we must look at this resolution , and this is also something that the United Nations Security Council will probably have to do sooner or later . We will have to do so because , as has happened in the past in other contexts and in other strategically important situations across the world , we must be in a position to assess a certain kind of process , and a certain kind of logic and balance - which were in fact the logic and the balance which led to this resolution being approved - should be maintained in future . 
What we have to do , and we in the European Union are already doing it , is to guarantee Mr Kouchner all the necessary resources , and you are right , Mr Rübig , we have a duty to our citizens to explain to them regularly and openly whether or not these resources are being properly used . 
We in the Council will be trying to provide information on this matter during the Portuguese Presidency . 
Mr Seixas da Costa , I totally agree with you . 
The problem is not Mr Kouchner but the legal basis on which he is working , namely Resolution 1244 . 
Having said this , the EU ' s responsibility , which is both yours and ours , is to try and move beyond the provisional nature of Resolution 1244 and devise a future scenario for the whole region . 
It is the failure to define this scenario which is causing or encouraging the excesses , accidents and assassinations mentioned by Mr Alavanos . 
Does the Council intend to raise the question of the definitive status of Kosovo ? 
If so , does it intend to do so within a general redefinition of the region , avoiding as far as possible the multiplication of micro - States , as has tended to happen elsewhere , and reuniting the parties , in this case Kosovo and Albania ? 
Since the author is not present , Question No 7 lapses . 
Question No 8 by ( H - 0796 / 99 ) : 
Subject : New INTERREG Initiative In point 1 of Annex 2 to its draft Communication on INTERREG entitled : Promotion of urban , rural and coastal development , the Commission authorises for the renovation and development of historic urban centres using a joint cross - border strategy . 
However , housing is specifically excluded . 
Given the fact that there are many houses in rural areas which are of historic interest , including small cottages , and , given the need , for a variety of reasons , to maintain rural populations and to attract people to rural areas , does not the Council agree that these objectives could be assisted if housing projects were funded in the areas covered by INTERREG ? 
Mr President , the Council and , I think , the Portuguese Presidency in particular , are extremely aware of the importance of the problems Mr Gallagher ' s question raises and I would like to say that we have always paid the utmost attention to Community policies for the development of rural areas . 
I would like to point out that in May 1999 we adopted a new system for supporting rural development which was the fourth Community reference framework for sustainable rural development . This was , as you know , one of the changes made during the Agenda 2000 negotiations and it changes the way in which agricultural issues are dealt with at Community level . 
Through the European Agricultural Guarantee and Guidance Fund , the EAGGF , this Community support framework is designed to help reverse the trend of abandoning rural areas , an issue you are quite right to raise . 
On the other hand , the European Regional Development Fund , the ERDF , also contributes as part of its role to promoting social and economic cohesion , by redressing the main regional imbalances and encouraging rural areas to take part in development and conversion . 
In this regard , we should bear in mind that the ERDF also contributes to promoting sustainable rural development and to creating sustainable employment in rural areas . 
This combination of instruments enables us to implement a policy of rural development which today , furthermore , is one of the ways in which the common agricultural policy - in one of its dimensions - and regional policy also , have developed and changed . 
We think that this is one of the most fundamental issues within the concept of multifunctionality which is now associated with changes in the common agricultural policy , and the EAGGF , of course , has a crucial role to play in this . 
Question No 9 by ( H - 0798 / 99 ) : 
Subject : Farming and the Portuguese Presidency Will the Council outline the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency for the next six months as regards the common agricultural policy and indicate the steps it feels are necessary to boost consumer confidence in the agricultural sectors and products adversely affected by recent health scares ? 
Your question on the common agricultural policy is one which we take very seriously and which should always be considered in this House ' s discussions , because in the future we are likely to discuss this issue at great length . 
During the Portuguese Presidency , we will be continuing discussions on the CAP , by adapting some of the common market organisations with a view to developing the Union ' s rural areas in an appropriate way and guaranteeing an improvement in farmers ' incomes , paying particular attention to measures which could have an impact on small family - run farms . 
On the other hand , the Portuguese Presidency will continue , if and when the new WTO round begins within its term of office , which is by no means guaranteed , to ensure that the presence of Community production on international markets is strengthened . It will also continue to ensure a greater balance between exported Community farm products and preserving the multifunctional European agriculture to which I have just referred . 
The Portuguese Presidency also attaches importance to reinforcing food safety policy and I think that the Portuguese Foreign Minister and President - in - Office already referred to this aspect this morning . 
We think that the role of food safety , specifically in terms of everything linked to public health , is one of our presidency ' s essential tasks . 
It is therefore one of the priorities of our programme . 
We shall be developing it in four parallel schemes , in the Agriculture Council , the Health Council , the Consumer Affairs Council and the Internal Market Council . 
At the Santa Maria da Feira European Council meeting in June , the Portuguese Presidency will present a report on this issue specifically in the light of the information the Commission presented in its White Paper a few days ago . 
We think that the task we now have of establishing a European agency is crucial in order to give credibility to the single market , to stabilise confidence in this market , to break down some of the tensions between Member States in this area and even - it has to be said - to give the European Union a common approach for its dealings with third countries in areas of food safety . 
This is what we shall be trying to achieve during the Portuguese Presidency and we hope , at the end of it , to be able to present the result of our efforts to this House . 
I thank the President - in - Office for his reply . 
I am sure that he is aware of the very serious threat to the European model which is based on family farming , mainly those farmers involved in beef and sheepmeat production who are now expected to sell their produce at or below production costs . 
I would like to ask what new steps the Council can take to safeguard their interests in the forthcoming world trade talks , in particular , against the ranch and factory - style production of the USA and New Zealand where economies of scale make competitive family farming for European farmers extremely difficult and where , of course , European standards of food safety do not apply . 
I completely understand your concerns , and I feel that there is a need for effort and a certain degree of consistency within the European Union itself on this issue . 
We also have to think of the consequences , especially in terms of financing and compensating farmers . 
Nevertheless , as you know , this issue is now in the hands of the European Commission and it will have to take this further . 
The Council ' s ability to intervene in this matter is strictly limited . 
Mr President , I too would like to welcome the President - in - Office to the Chamber . 
But I do not think he answered my question with regard specifically to tackling homelessness and housing and whether the Portuguese Presidency would be willing to meet the non - governmental organisations actively involved in this field . 
I appreciate and fully support his point on the need for multiple policies and a multi - disciplinary approach and also the need to combat the underlying causes of exclusion which can lead to homelessness and include the problem of drug dependency . 
My specific question concerns the problem of homelessness and whether a new presidency could take a new initiative to try to overcome some of the difficulties the President - in - Office alluded to with regard to support at intergovernmental level . 
I feel this is one area where Europe can play a very active role , even if only in providing the conduit for exchange of experience and best practice among the Member States . 
Mr Crowley , with regard to the presidency ' s scope for supporting actions by non - governmental organisations , particularly those which attempt to resolve the problems faced by the homeless , I would like to say that such initiatives are welcome , and we are very much open to the possibility of supporting them . 
We have worked closely with Portuguese NGOs and with some initiatives they have proposed within the framework of the Portuguese Presidency , which we are combining with the wide range of concerns underpinning our whole programme . 
We have no specific , concrete initiatives in this area but that does not mean that we are closed to the idea that an initiative proposed to us by NGOs in this area might be considered during our presidency . 
It should be pointed out that this can only be done within the Council ' s scope for action . 
Any aspect of this which may impinge on the Commission ' s right of initiative will obviously have to be done through the Commission itself . 
Mr President - in - Office of the Council , you have talked a lot about the future , about what the Commission will do , and what the Presidency will do in Lisbon , etc . However , you also said something which I find particularly frightening . 
You said that in Lisbon you intend to discuss more dynamic and competitive development . 
I am beginning to feel a little worried because this may lead , partially at least , to exclusion . 
I do not see how you could , with the views that you hold , provide any answers . 
What I asked and what I am once again asking is the following : what are the views of the Portuguese Presidency on , for example , the appeals made by the network to combat poverty and exclusion , the division of work and social security , the implementation of tax policies , particularly for speculative capital , and the policy of redistributing wealth ? 
I would like an answer as to whether or not the Portuguese Presidency intends to do something about these matters . 
You must understand that a presidency ' s ability to reverse global social or economic trends during its six months in office is actually quite limited . 
I think that it is also obvious that our ability to act is linked to the Commission ' s own scope for intervening , through its right of initiative . 
I have spoken about the Special European Council and about Portugal ' s initiative in convening it , and I have spoken about the future , because there are two complementary ways of seeing the issue of social exclusion . One of them is the series of measures which must be adopted immediately in order to deal with the specific effects of social exclusion . 
The second is to create internationally competitive conditions , which will enable us to improve the economic fabric of the European Union , and this will have positive knock - on effects on the problems of social exclusion . 
The Portuguese Presidency does not have a magic wand with which it can , in six months , resolve problems that have always existed . 
It is prepared to act on proposals by the Commission in any area for which there is Community competence . It also has the opportunity and the desire to promote the whole raft of measures which may be presented , specifically by non - governmental organisations , but also through the intergovernmental collaboration which is traditional in these matters . 
We should , however , also bear in mind , Mr Papayannakis , that we cannot act in an area which will have such a big financial impact , armed only with the measures a presidency can propose in the space of six months . 
We therefore think that all the measures we have highlighted in terms of long - term strategies , regardless of the fact that we know that in the long term , some of the homeless may be dead , will help us to guarantee sustainable policies in the European Union . 
We will try to move these strategies forward as much as possible during our presidency . 
Question No 12 by ( H - 0801 / 99 ) : 
Subject : Portuguese Presidency and development policy Will the President - in - Office of the Council make a statement on the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency with regard to development policy , the Convention of Lomé and tackling famine situations ? 
I would like to thank the presidency for the comprehensive answer to my question , and indeed the Minister who spoke to the Committee on Development last week in Brussels outlining the position . 
But there are some questions still outstanding . 
There does not seem to be any emphasis on the fight against AIDS in the programme . 
The situation of AIDS in Africa now is so serious that more people are dying of AIDS than are dying in conflict . 
I hope that the Minister will take some time to pursue that particular issue . 
Medicines are available in the United States but the United States is not making them cheap enough for the people in Africa . 
I should like to ask the Minister what precisely he is doing about the situation that is developing in Ethiopia where there is drought , where the crops have failed , and where , in six months ' time , we will inevitably be back to the situation as it was some years ago in Ethiopia with famine and people dying in their thousands . 
At the same time , there is a war going on between Eritrea and Ethiopia and the armaments industry in Europe is not short in sending guns , after which we will send the bread . 
First of all , Mr Andrews , you must understand that I do not agree with your interpretation of my colleague ' s speech during the meeting of the Committee on Development . 
There is no contradiction between our two positions , quite the opposite . 
Unless we wish to act like megalomaniacs , we cannot in the course of one presidency perform an exhaustive inventory of all possible and imaginary situations relating to all the enormous issues we face , particularly in the area of external relations . 
As you can understand , it would be easy to do so . 
All we would have to do is get a directory of development and put all the items in our programme , one after the other . 
We are sufficiently responsible to realise that we should only include those which we will be able to manage during the term of our Presidency and - we should always be aware of this - within governments ' ability to act and within the scope of the Council . 
We must understand that there are limitations on what we can achieve , particularly in terms of managing national indicative programmes . 
You have mentioned Ethiopia , which falls within the scope of national indicative programmes , but there are , as you know , several Community actions to combat AIDS , and in this respect , you are right , and the United States will probably not do any better . 
Indeed , in terms of development aid policy , I think that Europe has absolutely nothing to worry about for the simple reason that our behaviour in this area compares very favourably with that of the United States . 
Your question switched to the subject of arms , a broader policy issue which I do not think falls within the scope of this question but which the Council will , of course , address in the future , if it sees fit and if it decides to put it in a specific context . 
Is the Council aware of the social problems caused by the export of food by the EU to developing countries at prices below the cost of production ? 
Does the presidency intend to do anything about this ? 
Since the author is not present , Question No 13 lapses . 
I would like to thank the President - in - Office of the Council , and I would personally like to welcome him and the Portuguese Presidency . 
Please allow me to remark on how well - versed and well - informed he is on European affairs . 
Unfortunately , in my case , he did not provide what I would call a satisfactory answer . 
Since the Council recognises the fact that culture is a major economic asset , it should , in my view , demonstrate this in practice . 
Saying that the cultural dimension is governed by the principle of subsidiarity and that it is therefore national governments who are responsible is , I am afraid , just an excuse . 
My question , which has not been answered , is why , when the European Parliament is looking to increase appropriations to fund cultural programmes within the European Union , the Council and the Commission are cutting back on appropriations and at times cutting them out altogether . 
This is a true example of the Council ' s indifference towards culture , despite its assurances to the contrary that it is a matter to which it attaches great importance . 
I would therefore like to ask the Council if it is prepared henceforth to support culture with the same readiness as it supported bananas , hops , cows and Indian hemp . 
Mr Marinos , we are not adopting a purely economic approach to managing the Portuguese Presidency , and therefore , the cultural dimension is , I am sure you will appreciate , one of our main concerns . 
These cultural dimensions , however , almost always have their own economic dimension in turn , that is the level of resources which can be called on specifically to provide aid for cultural initiatives . 
This is a dimension which it is difficult to go beyond within the framework of the European Union , and especially within the framework of the Council . 
For our part , we shall be attempting to strengthen and consolidate the European position on cultural goods and services and on activities in this sphere , because we believe that this is an identifying feature which is crucial to the Union ' s image and to the Union ' s own particular identity . 
This is , and will continue to be , connected with developments within the World Trade Organisation . 
As you know , both we and the Council have addressed this issue appropriately . In specific terms , we have been able to find a common language in terms of the mandate given to the Commission for the next round of WTO negotiations , at which this will be a central issue . 
Nevertheless , I would like to add that with regard to cultural policy , and in particular the audiovisual dimension , the Portuguese Presidency will be paying very close attention to extending and enriching European audiovisual policy by adopting a Media - Plus programme which could go some way towards allaying Europe ' s main fears . 
We also intend to initiate a new debate , a more innovative one , on the issue of Europe ' s film heritage , given that this must be one of the most important factors in the development of a European cultural identity and of a European audiovisual economy . 
The Presidency will also concentrate on discussions about creating a digital television system in Europe , which will be the subject of a conference that we shall be organising during the Portuguese Presidency , in conjunction with the Commission , in February 2000 . 
But , Mr Marinos , in the EU context , culture is an issue which is repeatedly raised in connection with IGC agendas . 
If , by chance , it were possible to agree to include the cultural dimension in what has been called the fifth negotiating box of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference , then this could be suggested , both by Member States , and by the Members of the European Parliament taking part in the preparatory group . 
Of course , if consensus could be reached on this issue at the Intergovernmental Conference , there might eventually be progress . 
It remains to be seen whether or not there is a consensus on this . 
We will soon see , and for our part , we will bear in mind any suggestions on this issue . 
Mr President , I join others in wishing Portugal every good wish for a successful presidency . 
I notice that you said this particular issue was not currently on your agenda for the next IGC but if some people wished it , you would consider it . 
Well , I , and my fellow 35 British Conservative MEPs wish it and would like you to please consider it . 
I appreciate that it is a provocative question . 
It is meant to provoke because there is a very serious issue here that some countries do not hold EU law in the respect which it deserves . 
We have to find some way of putting pressure on such countries to do just that so we can reconnect with our citizens . 
I cannot think of a better way to do it . 
Can you ? 
The issue is whether the European dimension will become stronger or weaker as a result of being specifically integrated into the Treaties . 
This is an issue which , as you will understand , will have to be addressed at IGC level and is an issue that only a Special European Council can authorise the Portuguese Presidency to pursue , because this kind of issue falls outside the institutional framework in which the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference will take place . 
Intergovernmental Conferences are a kind of event in themselves and could also be a type of Christmas tree . 
It is therefore not out of the question that these issues , which crop up again and again , and which are passed from one conference to another , may be addressed . 
The problem facing us at the moment is whether there is currently a consensus within the European Union on this issue being included , particularly bearing in mind that if one such issue is included , other issues of a similar nature will probably be added to the conference ' s agenda . 
Mr Dimitrakopoulos has the floor for a procedural motion . 
I would ask him to be brief . 
Mr President , I understand that I have to do this very quickly . 
I liked what Mr Seixas da Costa said about Father Christmas . 
In Spain they say a letter to the three kings . 
I simply wish to remind you that the European Parliament has already sent a letter to the three kings through its reports . 
Now the Presidency and the Council have to bring the presents which we have asked them for in our letter to the three kings . 
As I suspected , it was not exactly a procedural motion , but more a closing of the debate . 
We thank Mr Seixas da Costa , but he can also write his letter to the three kings . 
I would merely say that the festive issue which Mr Dimitrakopoulos has raised is an extremely important one . 
The problem is that in this case Father Christmas has to follow orders and therefore he can only give presents when he is authorised by others to do so . 
It is not the Portuguese Presidency ' s job to hand out the presents that everyone wants , especially those that the European Parliament is asking for . 
After this interesting exchange of opinions , and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure , I would like to tell you that Questions Nos 17 to 27 will be replied to in writing . 
That concludes questions to the Council . 
Capital tax
The next item is the joint debate on : 
the oral question ( B5 - 0004 / 2000 ) by Mr Désir and others , to the Council , on the Council position on the idea of a capital tax
the oral question ( B5 - 0005 / 2000 ) by Mr Désir and others , to the Commission , on the Commission position on the idea of a capital tax . 
Madam President , Mr President - in - Office of the Council , Commissioner , during the Asian crisis in 1997 , as with those which hit Mexico in 1995 or the EMS in 1993 , everyone could see the damage caused to the economies of entire countries by financial speculation , particularly currency speculation . 
Between EUR 1 500 and 2 000 billion are traded every day on the financial markets . In three or four days , this can equal the total figure of annual global production , or global GDP , of approximately EUR 6 000 billion . 
The bulk of these financial transactions are purely speculative and do not involve any trade in goods or investments . 
Yet the erratic movement of these massive sums of capital can , in a few hours , cause the collapse of a currency or the economy of a country , plunging its whole population into recession . 
In view of this situation , renewed interest has been expressed in the proposal by James Tobin , winner of the Nobel Prize for Economics , to create a tax on currency transactions . The rate of this would be very low so that it did not affect trade in goods or investments , but it would act as a light brake on the wheels of speculation , thereby checking the multiplication of short - term transactions . 
Note that this proposed tax , which seems to be producing strong emotions in some people , would be the lowest tax in the world and the lowest in the history of global taxation . Yet it would represent the recapture of the areas seized from democracy by the financial sphere . 
One reason for the acceptance of this proposal , and of the campaigns by NGOs such as ATTAC , SOLIDAR or others which have popularised this proposal , is that it would release resources which could be allocated to development programmes in the poorest countries , in areas such as education or health . 
It could act as a kind of asset redistribution in a world where there is both increasing wealth and increasing poverty . 
Many personalities and institutions have come out in favour of this tax such as the Brazilian President , Fernando Cardoso , the Finnish Government , the Canadian Parliament last March and also Lionel Jospin in 1995 . 
This question has been debated in several national parliaments of the EU . 
The common response has been that this tax could not be applied solely at national level and that the right platform for tackling this is the European Union . This is the reason for the oral question to the Council and Commission which we have tabled with 37 other Members . 
I am delighted with the compromise motion for a resolution which we have reached with the GUE / NGL , Greens / EFA , ELDR and PSE Groups . 
This motion asks the Commission to present a report to Parliament within six months on the feasibility of this tax . It also asks for an examination of the pressures and financial sanctions which could be applied against countries which encourage tax evasion or which maintain tax havens . 
One of the most common objections is that such a tax would be too complex , but this could be said of any tax . 
If this argument had been accepted in the past , then no taxes would ever have been created . 
The motion also asks that a position document , drawn up by the Commission and Council , should be submitted before the next annual meeting of the IMF . 
The European Union must take the initiative and must also , as demanded in the motion , propose this initiative to the G7 because it is primarily a political question . 
If the Union takes the initiative , this will have a ratchet effect because this debate is occurring all over the world , including in the USA and Japan . A desire is being expressed everywhere with increasing force that the world should not be ruled by traders but by the people , their parliaments , their governments and their democratic institutions . 
Europe must play a role in this new international regulation and I am extremely happy that today , with this debate and this motion , this question is now on the agenda of European construction . 
Madam President , I do not have a great deal to add on this subject . 
The Council has not yet discussed the possibility of introducing a tax on movements of capital as Professor Tobin suggested . 
This is a creative initiative , which we know has been welcomed by different industries across the world and by various sides in European politics , but the Commission has not yet put forward any proposal or initiative on this issue . 
As it falls to the Commission to propose any such initiative , the Council has not yet been able to adopt a position on this issue . 
