Madam President , the revenue basis of the Tobin tax is said to be made up of very short - term exchange transactions . 
Such transactions , according to the argument , bear very little relation to fundamental economic variables . 
This has also just been underlined by Mr Désir . 
Therefore , according to proponents , such as Mr Désir , an internationally applied Tobin tax would , in principle , reduce speculative transactions and , hence , the volatility of exchange rates , which would lead to an improvement in economic prosperity . 
Taking into account the considerable volume of short - term financial streams , even a low nominal Tobin tax would yield respectable sums of tax revenue . 
In reality , the motive underlying the increased interest in the Tobin tax and other sources of international finance in the mid - nineties was non - economic . Indeed , it was fuelled by the potential of this tax to generate income for international , public programmes at a time when demand for such funds was rising quickly and funding was increasingly harder to come by . 
The Commission recently observed renewed interest in a global tax , such as the Tobin tax , as a means of achieving socially responsible globalisation , so to speak . 
Mr Désir too has mentioned this growing interest on all sides . 
But if the Tobin tax were to be applied unilaterally in order to prevent attacks on a specific currency , then this tax could not be effective and it could harm the internal financial market . 
Put more strongly , in the long term it is possible that for large numbers of funds , the Tobin tax will be evaded by shifting foreign exchange rate transactions to off - shore tax havens . 
In that case , the tax could lead to a net loss of total economic prosperity . 
So the Tobin tax can only be effective if there is a sufficient number of industrialised countries which are prepared to participate . 
Finally , even if the Tobin tax is designed to curb speculations with currencies , there is still the risk that even non - speculative streams would be affected , and that is not the intention . 
For the reasons set out above , I cannot see a good reason for introducing a European Tobin tax . 
At any rate , the Commission is against any attempt to restrict capital movement within the European Union . 
In more direct terms , to the extent that this measure could be deemed an indirect restriction on capital streams , this would contravene the Treaty of Rome . 
The correct speculative approach , it seems to me , is to remove the real causes which lead to financial chaos , rather than attempting to suppress its symptoms by introducing obstacles to the operation of the markets . 
Madam President , Commissioner , I should like once again to say a few words on the modus operandi and the ideological tactics behind this oral question . 
Also because I know how many social democrats in this House share our criticism , and not just the economic and financial policy experts . 
We know what the problem is : instability on the markets as the result of speculation . 
But the people asking the question need to know that not every instance of instability , as the Commissioner has just so impressively told us , is the result of speculation . 
The Tobin tax would not have been able to prevent the crises in the EEA in 1992 and 1993 or the crises in the south - east Asian currencies in 1997 . 
The initiators of this question do not propose a solution ; instead they are calling for a new burden , they are calling for more bureaucracy , for a measure which runs counter to the market mechanisms and they are taking up plenary ' s time with an intergroup opinion which excludes the competent parliamentary committee , contrary to several resolutions by Parliament . 
In my view , and I say this quite clearly , the question is ideologically motivated rather than solution - focused . 
I consider this to be the wrong way forward for several reasons . 
Why do we reject the Tobin tax and consider it so questionable ? 
First , and the Commissioner has also confirmed this , because it places a heavy burden on the capital markets . 
Even a small tax would have serious repercussions on the capital markets , because this sort of speculation tax would reduce the profitability of investments considerably . 
In addition , this sort of measure would also seriously hamper the development of the financial markets and would stand in the way of the principle of the free movement of capital , which is one of the central tenets of the internal market . 
Secondly , speculative capital is extremely difficult to identify . 
Thirdly , unless they are introduced in all countries at the same time , tax measures are easy to circumvent because there are otherwise too many loopholes . 
Fourthly , technically speaking , this measure is highly impracticable and will result in a great deal of bureaucracy and administration and be impossible to control . 
The measure which we should be taking is part of the resolution before us here today . 
We need stronger banking supervision . 
We need to clarify the liability for transactions . 
We need a framework of regulations at international level . 
We need to examine national laws in order to check that they comply with the rules of the Basle committee and how the dissemination of these rules can be stepped up . 
I have a serious problem with one of the central points of this resolution which we cannot accept as it stands . I refer to point 9 . 
Having listened to the Commissioner just now , we know that the Commission ' s knowledge of the facts will result in a ' no ' to the Tobin tax . 
If the knowledge of the facts and this debate and the arguments are as we say , and I think that they are right , then to take up another six months of the Commission ' s time and occasion uncertainty on the financial and capital markets would be irresponsible . 
The capital markets do not want uncertainty from us , they want clarity ; which is why we reject point 9 and call for a split vote . 
Madam President , the debate on a tax on short - term financial actions is not a new one . 
We have been discussing the Tobin tax proposal for twenty years and yet the question is still topical because we need really concrete and honest answers based on careful studies . 
We need to know just how desirable and feasible a tax on short - term transactions really is . 
This question has now entered a different dimension , a dimension in which USD 1 500 billion roam the world twenty - four hours a day looking for attractive investments , no more than 3 % of which have anything to do with the real economy . 
We are concerned about stability on the financial markets , not for the sake of the financial markets , but because this has to do with own growth , our own investments and our own jobs in the European Union . 
We must ask what instruments we can use in order to create the order here which has been missing in the past . 
We have done everything to help liberalise financial transactions , but so far we have had no working set of rules , as we have learned from the bitter lessons of the repercussions of the Asian and Latin American crises . 
It is therefore high time that we thought both about supervisory regulations and about transparency on the financial markets and their information . 
It is important that we know who the actors are and what their credit rating is . 
We must also ask if there is not a need for fiscal justice . 
At a time when the tax burden on the work factor is increasing throughout Europe and internationally , we must consider how we can achieve efficient taxation of investment income and that includes the question of how to tax short - term financial transactions . 
I think that we really do need a careful report and conclusions from the Commission , so that we as the European Parliament can see if we need to ensure that the European Union achieves real international solidarity with the USA and Japan in making the economy and the financial markets more stable and secure . 
This is the intention behind the question and we must then follow the ordinary procedures of reports from committees and plenary debate in order to reach a balanced and really forward - looking proposal . 
Madam President , on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , I must express my surprise at this debate on the international movement of capital and its possible taxation which , although it does not mention it in the text , appears to be an attempt to revive , as the introduction has done , the issue of the tax proposed some years ago by Mr Tobin , which our Group opposed , clearly and totally , during the last legislature , with a series of arguments clearly and coherently expressed by our President , Mr Cox . 
I will have to repeat these arguments , modestly , in this intervention , because the same issue has arisen once again . 
We do not agree with this type of tax because its application , in the event that it could happen , would not achieve the aims which Mr Tobin presented at the time and which the Left in this House wishes to revive . 
Firstly , there is no evidence that the tax on international capital movements could reduce the dangers of volatility and instability in the international markets . 
On the contrary , since it is certain that not all countries would accept it , we would open the way to speculation and fraud and that really would create volatility , instability , insecurity , opacity and unfair competition in the field of financial services operating on an international level . 
Furthermore , the idea of obtaining resources to apply them to the more economically needy countries presents such complexity , when we consider their application in practice , that it appears simply impossible . 
This is a false debate whose aim is purely political , and has no basis or technical viability . 
Furthermore - since we are in this European Parliament - if we have still not managed the slightest agreement with regard to the package of fiscal measures proposed by the Commission within the European Union , how can we expect to achieve a fiscal agreement on an international level ? 
I suppose that the first thing they say will be ,  ' let us see whether you are capable of reaching a fiscal agreement within the Union '  . 
However , the Liberal Group has not wanted to close the door to a new analysis of this issue and , therefore , we have accepted a joint motion for a resolution proposing that a study be carried out on the possibility and suitability of imposing this tax on certain areas of international capital movements . 
I am sure that this study - if carried out objectively , with knowledge of the financial markets and their mechanisms on an international level - will show that it is neither suitable nor possible , not only in terms of its application , but also as a means of achieving the proposed objectives . 
In itself , globalisation is positive . 
The economy has never grown so much nor favoured so many countries on a global level . 
This is due to progressive opening up and greater freedom in the international trade in goods and services and also a greater capacity for adequate movement of capital . 
Any analysis of economic development in recent years , if objective , will show , through the figures , that they have no political colour or orientation . 
As I have said , we are not opposed to such a study . 
We will support the motion for a resolution in support of this study , but we simply insist that , as this motion for a resolution points out , it is by means of liberalisation and opening up at an international level that we will achieve economic progress , both on the level of states and on a general level . 
Madam President , Commissioner , the problem does not lie in the ideology of the debate but in its political nature . 
As Mrs Randzio - Plath said , we must remember that the reason why certain Members want to revive this question is because of the recent international financial crises and their economic , social and environmental consequences which have been felt by all in some countries . 
The main objective of this debate is to look at the instruments available to the international community for stabilising the international financial and monetary system . 
In this respect , Mr Bolkestein , the motion for a resolution cannot be separated from the issue of the Tobin tax . 
If you look carefully , this proposed tax on capital is just one of several instruments aimed at forcing international investors to behave responsibly on the financial markets . 
Secondly , the motion does not say that we want a solely European initiative . 
This is why we explicitly refer to the autumn session of the International Monetary Fund so that the European Union , in other words the Commission and also the Council , can decide how it will defend the opportunity to stabilise the international financial and monetary system and introduce international taxation . 
There should be no confusion in this debate . As environmentalists , we do not want an excuse for a motion . 
Although a study produced by the Commission would doubtless be interesting , we do not need another to add to those already available . 
We do need to obtain , from the Commission and the Council , in other words from each of the governments forming the Union , a clear , positive or negative , political stance . They must indicate whether they are ready to defend , within competent public bodies such as the International Monetary Fund in the first instance , the appropriateness of such a tax within the other instruments needed to stabilise the international monetary system . 
As for the argument that this initiative would increase uncertainty , very short - term capital movements are specifically intended to play on uncertainty and to bet on changes between currencies or various short - term financial assets . 
This argument is therefore not relevant . 
I will not go into the basic issue any further for everyone has their arguments . 
However , I would highlight not only paragraph 9 of the motion , but also paragraph 10 . 
We clearly expect a political stance to be taken with a very firm deadline of the preparations for the autumn session of the International Monetary Fund . We therefore demand , if this motion is adopted tomorrow , that the Commission and Council appear before Parliament to tell us what positions they will take on this occasion . 
Madam President , my Group is extremely delighted that this debate is taking place today , particularly as we have spared no effort along with Members of other groups to bring this about . 
Obviously we all have different approaches which is demonstrated by our debate and the motions for a resolution tabled at the beginning . 
Having said this , our Group is pleased about the step forward which the compromise motion represents . 
This invites the Commission to present a report within six months . 
The European Parliament can play its role by taking the initiative , even if it does so timidly , on this subject . However , I agree with the previous speaker that , if paragraph 9 were challenged , this motion would clearly lose its substance . 
This debate concerns a vital question which increasing numbers of people are legitimately raising . What are the respective places of people and finance in today ' s economy ? 
USD 1 800 billion is the volume of money moved every day in the world ' s currency markets . This represents over a quarter of the annual global volume of trade in goods and services . 
By putting finance at the helm , this has reinforced the demands of profitability and toughened the operating conditions everywhere . 
It has led to a growth in mergers , acquisitions and company restructuring and to gigantic sums being raised with increasing frequency on the financial markets . 
Unemployment and pressure on employees worldwide is increasing . 
Openings and real growth are being hampered and the sudden influx or withdrawal of speculative capital is threatening the economies of many countries , to the point of collapse , as in Asia , Russia and Brazil . 
Faced with this neoliberal globalisation dominated by the financial markets , demand , as our motion recognises , is developing from a different idea of the world in which common law stipulates a duty of solidarity in an increasingly interdependent world . 
No one can ignore the challenge to civilisation posed by the lack of nearly one billion jobs and the need to make unprecedented efforts in terms of development and access to information . 
In this respect , all ideas deserve to be considered , including the Tobin tax which is important , just like other forms of transaction which may be envisaged . 
This tax could help to check speculation without penalising the activities of the real economy . It could release new resources for investment in people and , at a time when the UNDP estimates the sum needed to eradicate poverty to be USD 40 billion per year , it could allow access for everyone to drinking water and satisfy health needs . 
When the debate on the ability of politics to influence economics goes global , the establishment of this tax could become one of the symbols of the political desire to recapture the democratic areas seized by the international financial operators . 
The Commissioner has said that a minimum number of industrialised countries would be needed to achieve this . 
I would point out that the European Union is composed of a large number of industrialised countries and , like Mr Désir and several other speakers , I feel that the European Union which we are forming can take the initiative in this respect . 
In any case , the European Parliament would be honoured to take up the call of the people to control the world in order to achieve a sense of well - being for everyone . 
Madam President , I too am delighted that we are having this debate . I only regret that it has been so long in coming . 
We know that each generation has , over the course of time , blindly bought into what could be called a dominant ideology . This is a set of prejudices accepted as such due to a general conformism , but whose dramatic nature can be seen by subsequent generations . 
Free trade and the constant worship of globalisation are now the dominant ideology or , rather , the big mistake of our fin de siècle . This ideology is as dangerous as the former ideology of the dictatorship of the proletariat in the corridors of the Kremlin or , before that , the certainty , elevated to the status of a dogma , that the earth was flat . 
Our world is now dominated by a single logic or , I could say , a single god of money at work instead of people at work . 
With a figure for trade in goods and services of FRF 36 000 billion only being equal to the product of four days ' speculation , the financial bubble owes very little to the productive activity of individuals . 
It is self - perpetuating in a world of ever higher bids which constantly denies the humanity of man , the rich as much as the poor . Yet it is the latter who , at the end of the day , are excluded from the majority of the world ' s decision - making centres for these are monopolised by a tiny minority referred to recently , and very aptly , by Jean - Pierre Chevènement as the globalised élites . 
It was natural that these élites would exclude any political concerns from their field of manoeuvre , thus protecting themselves from any democratic control and basically managing to be both illegitimate and irresponsible . 
However , the people are fighting back , as demonstrated by their reaction during the incredible Seattle Summit . The leaders of the world , headed unfortunately by the European Commission , rushed forward submissively , hoping that their docility at the feet of the master of the world , Mr Clinton , would be enough to ensure them the scraps from the table . 
Yet they reckoned without the salutary reaction of the nobodies , both individuals and States . This reaction was more organised than previously , due in France particularly to the magnificent ATTAC network which is fighting with increasing support to limit free trade in general and to establish taxation of international financial transactions in particular . 
The creation of this taxation , of either the Tobin type or the more realistic type proposed by Professor Lauré , could prove to be politically opportune , at least due to its symbolism rather than its low rate . This is because it would basically mean that politics was regaining a foothold in an area from which it has been excluded by operators whose profits are proportional to the degree of resignation of States . 
Madam President , although some of the aims of the Tobin tax are fairly worthy of support , introducing the tax exclusively within the territory of the European Union , as the first area of the world to do so , would sound the death knell for the European currency markets . 
If the world ' s other important currency trading areas were to be excluded from the Tobin tax , the fact that tax was liable to be paid in Europe would lead to currency dealing moving to those areas . 
This has already been made clear a number times in this debate . 
It is not enough that all the world ' s industrialised countries should be included in the scheme , as then currency trading would move to tax havens outside that group of countries . 
There should therefore be a universal application : it is not enough that the G7 countries or the other industrialised countries are involved . 
On the other hand , it would be so difficult to bring the scheme into force everywhere in the world at precisely the same time - and personally speaking , I do not believe we can achieve this - that the Tobin tax dream might as well be buried . 
Furthermore , although there might be international consensus on the introduction of the scheme , the question would remain regarding how the tax revenue would be distributed . 
The world ' s currency dealing centres will hardly agree to the tax revenue being used , for example , for a variety of well - meaning , UN - backed purposes throughout the world without a considerable amount of the revenue remaining with them . 
With regard to the Tobin tax as a means of preventing future currency crises , it has to be realised that the causes of a currency being overvalued cannot be averted through taxation . 
For that reason , as Mr Karas also said , we should give more attention to the policies that lead to a certain currency being overvalued in relation to its actual potential value . 
This again would require measures to regulate the exportation and importation of capital ; otherwise it would not be possible to focus on policies in this way . 
Although it seems a reasonable scheme , the Tobin tax is not without its problems , even if there should be agreement as to its implementation , which I do not believe there will . 
It has to be remembered that money at present is first and foremost information , and that the global economy will , in the future , rotate more and more on the basis of information and intellectual capital . 
For that reason , the uninterrupted flow of assets in massive volumes between the world ' s financial centres is not merely speculative activity , which has nothing to do with the real economy . 
If this ' feedback ' mechanism , which gives users the opportunity to make choices , were hampered by measures such as the Tobin tax , mistaken decisions might be made that turned out to be so costly in terms of the economic consequences that the tax would never be able to make up for it . 
Hence , as Mr Karas has stated to his credit , our Group is resolutely opposed to the introduction of the Tobin tax . 
Madam President , I speak as someone who is in support of a tax on speculative capital movements across currency borders . 
It seems to me blindingly self - evident that some action is necessary . 
In the last 30 years , the volume of currency transactions has increased by 83 times : firstly , total global reserves of all central banks barely amounts to one day of foreign exchange trading ; secondly , annual global trade in real goods and services equals just three - and - a - half days of foreign exchange markets out of 350 , that is , 1 % of capital movements are for trade in goods and services and 99 % are for speculation . 
The size , unpredictability and irrationality of the global foreign exchange markets have made it harder and harder to manage national and regional economies . 
Computer - controlled selling programmes turned a random blip into an avalanche , burying jobs , lives and industries across the globe . 
The only arguments against it are : firstly , it would impair the efficiency of the foreign exchange market - a little fanciful in light of the financial feeding frenzies we have seen that have destroyed jobs throughout the world , in East Asia , Europe and Latin America . 
Mr Chirac has described those who engage in this as the Aids virus of the world economy . 
What is necessary is to throw some sand into the wheels of the currency speculators , stockbrokers and option traders . 
Of course , this cannot be done in one country ; it cannot be done within the single currency area , but it could be done at international level with global cooperation . 
Europe , Japan and the US - the euro , the yen and the dollar , would constitute , in my opinion , such a block . 
I am disappointed in the EPP . 
I thought at least they read the resolutions they were going to vote on . 
Yes , I am in favour of such a tax , but it is not what we are going to vote on tomorrow . 
What we are going to vote on tomorrow is to ask the Commission to study the matter , to look at what steps and what conditions would be necessary for the introduction of such a tax . 
Equally I understand the Commissioner failing to endorse such a tax , but I cannot understand why he failed to have the courage to welcome the opportunity to demonstrate the truth of his position by a study of the issue . 
There is nothing so closed as a closed mind . 
The tax has the support of 47 % of the people in the UK , according to a recent survey by War on Want . 
In France it has had enormous resonance , particularly when linked to a demand to use the proceeds to help the Third World out of its debt and poverty . 
This issue can no longer be ignored by Parliament , the Council or the Commission . 
There is now a weight of public opinion demanding an answer more sophisticated than :  " It has not been done before " . 
In the new millennium , with new global problems requiring new global solutions , they need to give good arguments why it cannot be done now , rather than why it has not been done in the past . 
Madam President , Commissioner , a compromise resolution on the usefulness of a tax on international financial flows would constitute a first step towards the essential amendment of many international rules . I have two or three points to make in this respect . 
One of the main demands of the demonstrators in Seattle was , rightly , the establishment of this type of tax , and this is not by chance . 
The proposal of this tax today sends out a strong signal from the rich European countries proving that they want to move away from the culture of egoism . 
Everyone feels that this kind of joint tax is a virtuous measure which does not prevent trade but is aimed primarily at speculation and its perverse effects . The Members on the right should note this . 
It symbolises the need for solidarity with the countries of the south , particularly those in Africa , the Caribbean and the Pacific which questioned us extensively on this subject in Seattle . 
In order to fully achieve its objective , the money supply released by such a tax must be redistributed among the poorest countries . 
This is how we can give sense and morality to the commercial rules and show solidarity with the people of the south . 
Madam President , we cannot just keep repeating the number which several previous speakers have quoted ; we must also mention the fact , Commissioner , that 80 % of these huge , daily foreign exchange sales have an investment term of no more than eight days . 
We cannot maintain a situation in which investments and the creation of jobs are less lucrative than short - term sales of foreign currency and shares . 
We cannot maintain a situation in which we allow ourselves to destroy the opportunity to take political action . 
We cannot maintain a situation in which income from non - economic activities increases more and more quickly . 
It has been demonstrated in Germany that income from monetary assets has almost doubled from 7 . 6 % of overall economic income since Tobin developed his idea . 
We cannot maintain a situation in which the poorest countries of the world are most exposed to the speculative arguments surrounding short - term currency fluctuations . 
Nor do I believe that this is impracticable . 
Why should it not be possible for the G7 countries , the other EU Member States , China , Singapore and Switzerland to come to an agreement on the introduction of the Tobin tax ? 
There must be an overriding economic interest . 
Why should it be impracticable , and it can be differentiated , to impose this tax on spot foreign exchange transactions , all the so - called cash transactions , currency futures and options ? 
Why should it be impracticable to set this tax at a rate which does not jeopardise the long - term investments needed by the economy but which finally makes short - term and speculative investments unattractive . 
Numerous very difficult questions are bound to arise , but the only real problem which I can see so far is one of political will and the St . Florian principle of shifting responsibility from one agency to another which has now taken hold . 
Madam President , we are not asking for more bureaucracy , as Mr Karas put it just a few minutes ago . 
We are looking for solutions . 
Of course capital markets need clarity - that is actually the idea . 
The Tobin tax will bring some transparency to a very obscure question . 
 " The more progress is made towards trade liberalisation , the more rules are needed " , as Commissioner Lamy said during the Millennium Round in Seattle . 
He recognised that the combined impact of the single market and the single currency that characterise the process of the European Union ' s construction is intimately linked to a huge amount of new regulations . 
Now that financing is readily available across national boundaries without any difficulty the same approach will obviously be strictly necessary , all the more so as we consider that an enormous amount every single day is employed in speculative transactions . 
We citizens of the world cannot afford the current rate of speculation . 
To continue would be economic suicide . 
Honourable Members , Commissioner , it is often said that Europe has succeeded in stabilising the economic sector , but this is only true if we confine ourselves purely to the public sector . 
If we look at the private sector , however , we will find not only that this fabled ' financial stability ' has been unsuccessful but that we are most probably sitting on a volcano ready to erupt at any moment . 
The debt burdens of the private sector and the corresponding excessive inflation of Stock Exchange securities , the two main market stability indicators , have , for some time , been at danger levels , as the Commission report on the economic situation in Europe clearly illustrates . 
The fact that the public accepts such rates and does not just abandon all financial activities in a panic can be explained by overambitious expectations over future gains . 
Speculative activities are growing beyond measure and are , in turn , generating profits which will eventually prove to be merely fictitious . 
Over - optimism will give way to disappointment and fear , which , in turn , will result in a stock market and economic crisis . 
The danger is too great for us to ignore . 
We ought to face it regardless of how difficult it may seem . 
Modern economic science has provided an exceptional instrument with the Tobin proposal and others , which we will be able to use if we have the political will to make a start . 
That is what we are lacking , Commissioner : the political will to make a start in tackling speculation . 
No longer should there be a place in democracy for the worship of , or for this fatalist approach towards , market forces as adopted by the liberals - and I am sorry that Mr Gasòliba I Böhm has left - as this will only lead to its ruin . 
Madam President , Mr Bolkestein , the ignorance surrounding this debate is unbelievable . 
We needed a Greek Member to finally tell us what this Tobin tax means . 
You reject it flatly because you do not understand the first thing about it . 
That the Right opposes taxes is quite understandable , except that they should never have been allowed to spirit their millions , or rather billions , into Switzerland . 
We all know that ! 
But now I call on you , in all consciousness , to help put a stop to speculative financial transactions and undermining long - term projects with long - term capital . 
It has never been done in south - east Asia , it has never been done in Europe , and I can understand why Mr Karas from Austria has left the chamber , given Austria ' s financial record . 
They are all tarred with the same dirty brush ! 
We need a Tobin tax to give us a fiscal instrument with which we can intervene . 
Madam President , I am totally appalled by the Commission ' s , i . e . Mr Bolkestein ' s , political ignorance ! 
He should perhaps use his position on the Tobin tax to ask himself why he is here at all ! 
Madam President , I too have found parts of the debate quite bizarre . 
It is perhaps not by chance that the Conservative benches have emptied because that which is represented as market freedom no longer has anything in common with the noble principles of the social market economy which has brought so much prosperity to us here in western Europe over recent decades . 
If we continue down this path , and this is the ideology , and declare the financial markets to be sacrosanct and even claim that any intervention in the workings of these markets is contrary to progress and contrary to the growth of the economy , then we will quite certainly be on the wrong tack and that could take on quite dangerous proportions . 
Those who own the monetary assets are currently amassing huge fortunes which are again screaming out to be reinvested . 
We have asset inflation of global proportions . 
As a result , speculative bubbles continually arise on the financial markets , causing growing economic instability which , in turn , jeopardises the entire economy . 
And it is precisely the medium - sized undertakings and large numbers of employees who suffer as a result . 
We can take action against this ; it is possible . 
The minimum requirements for this would be for a proper study to be carried out at long last , not only by the Commission , but by reputable economic institutes throughout Europe . 
That too is feasible . 
And then perhaps everyone will stop bandying about arguments which are asking for trouble ! 
It is not correct that the Tobin tax is technically impracticable - it is quite feasible in the age of the computer . 
The fact that tax havens are frequently nothing but hard disk storage space for large European banks here at home must not be ignored . 
In short , we must not allow real capital and speculative capital to become so remote from each other , because otherwise we shall be steering towards situations which we experienced on this continent time and again during the last century and which had catastrophic results . 
Madam President , let us indeed tax money speculation : it does not produce anything new . 
The tax would be targeted at the right place : at the speculators . 
Who is going to defend these speculators , when nurses and teachers are paying top rates of tax ? 
Article 73 c of the Treaty establishing the European Union provides scope for taxation on transactions . 
Those who oppose taxation on currency dealing are in favour of those tax - recycling centres , the tax havens , of which there are 62 in all . 
The Union should make a tax pact , which any countries could initially be party to . 
The low rate Tobin tax would not cause tax - recycling problems . 
It is strange to claim that if everyone is not included it would be impossible to bring into effect . 
The European Union was founded through the efforts of just a few countries , and you see how we are today . 
The truth is the greatest problem is a political one : they do not want to tax capital , but raise personal taxation instead . 
In the end tax would politicise the global , undemocratic system of financial power . 
Ladies and gentlemen , we must challenge the monopoly the world ' s speculative elite have on planning the world ' s economy by remaining outside the tax system . 
