Madam President , may I begin by extending a heartfelt thanks to all speakers and , above all of course , Mr Désir , for the fact that this debate is taking place this evening . 
Whatever one may think about the topic of debate , it is evident that it is an important one . 
This is why it has been around for years , and it is satisfying that the Commission is being afforded the opportunity this evening to give a response . 
I would like to start by underlining two remarks made by the Member of your Parliament , Mr Gasòliba . 
He said that globalisation is a positive phenomenon , and I share his view . 
I believe that globalisation has helped many countries which , so far , have been on the sideline of the world trade streams to participate in these and be incorporated into the world trade system and , as far as I am aware , no country has ever been worse off by participating in international trade . 
In other words , as indeed already remarked by Mr Gasòliba , globalisation is , in my view , positive , and I am of the opinion that it has contributed to a new international distribution of labour which has been pursued by many people for many years . 
A second remark made by Mr Gasòliba was that there is currently no evidence that the Tobin tax will stabilise the exchange rates . 
I think that he is correct in this regard . 
I too am not aware of any reason why a tax on exchange rate transactions would lead to a stabilisation of exchange rates . 
I am of the opinion that these are two important remarks , and that is why I am reiterating them here . 
Madam President , could I furthermore point out that none of the speakers this evening has drawn a link between the Tobin tax on the one hand and the functioning of the European Union on the other ? 
Surely we are all familiar with the Treaty of Rome and know that one of the four freedoms is the freedom of capital movement . 
Madam President , I can assure your Parliament that my day - to - day work consists partly of attempting , in conjunction with my offices and colleagues , to completely integrate the financial markets within Europe , thus enabling financial transactions to run as easily and smoothly as possible . 
In my capacity as Commissioner for the Internal Market , I am , in other words , opposed to all measures which hamper international financial transactions . 
You could hardly expect this Commissioner to agree with a tax which would , in fact , impede international economic movement . 
Once again , the Tobin tax is , in my view , at odds with the Treaty of Rome , and this is an important , theoretical objection which has not been considered by any of the speakers this evening . 
Madam President , apart from these - to my mind - quite fundamental observations , there are also practical objections to the Tobin tax , as already underlined by Mr Karas and other speakers . 
It has unfortunately been observed , I have to say , that the European Union has failed to reach agreement internally on specific tax measures . 
This indicates how difficult these dossiers are . 
If we have not been able to reach agreement internally , I wonder whether we will then be able to convince the other trade partners . 
I think that this will be problematic . 
Madam President , Mr Jonckheer has stated that this could be one of the measures for stabilising the financial markets . 
I think , however , that instability is merely a symptom and that we should be looking at the underlying causes . I think that it is preferable to fight the causes rather than attempt to tackle the symptoms when this is probably not possible and when , as already stated , the measure concerned is pretty certainly at odds with the Treaty of Rome . 
In order to remove these causes , one has to look at what is happening in the countries in question . 
Is it the case that these countries can boast of what is termed in English ' good governance '  ? 
Is it the case that there is low inflation and that there are low interest rates ? 
That the markets for production factors , including the labour market , operate flexibly ? 
That is not always the case . 
So if we want to look into what causes exchange rate instability , then we need to take into account the elements of good governance and focus on these first . 
In addition - and this has also been mentioned already , for example by Mr Gasòliba I Böhm , but also by others - there is a need for more supervision . 
More supervision nationally - supervision by national governments of national banks - and internationally , for example by means of the IMF . 
So I believe the best way to tackle the causes is by ensuring , on the one hand , that good governance is observed in the countries in question and that , on the other hand , there is more supervision nationally and internationally in order to avoid these lapses . 
Madam President , according to various Members of your Parliament , more funding should still be made available for major projects . 
For example , Mr Kreissl - Dörfler spoke in English about ' long - term capital for long - term projects '  - this is an obvious issue . 
My reply to this is that , firstly , countries should honour their pledges , namely make 0 . 7 % of their Gross National Product available for development aid and cooperation , so that a great deal more money becomes available than at present for such long - term projects and via a route established for the purpose , namely contributions to development cooperation , and not via an artificial and probably harmful route , namely the Tobin tax . 
Madam President , I should like to leave it here . 
As far as the resolution is concerned , of which I have seen a draft , the Commission will await the vote and will , based on this , determine its stance . 
I thank you for giving me the opportunity to take part in this debate . 
I have received four motions for a resolution , tabled pursuant to Rule 40 ( 5 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
Madam President , unfortunately I do not have your mastery of the French language . 
But I would be obliged if Mr Bolkestein would just listen for a minute , which I think he cannot do at the same time as talking to Mrs Randzio - Plath . 
Could you please draw his attention to the fact that I have something to say to him ? 
Monsieur Bolkestein , je veux vous dire quelque chose ! 
Unfortunately , my Dutch is not as good as yours . 
But I would rather like to say something else to you . 
Parliament is not taking the initiative and supporting a Tobin type tax just to annoy the Commission . 
We want to examine the possibility of introducing a Tobin tax . 
It will be just one of several instruments and hopefully you will be on our side in this . 
From a political point of view , I always fret when people say , we neither need , want nor can we achieve these things ! 
It is not your job , it is our job to decide on that . 
It also has something to do with the newly awoken self - consciousness of this Parliament . 
I just want to discuss it with you , no more and no less . 
We can do so without going off at other tangents . I respect you as a serious Commissioner who wants to take his work seriously . 
Please respect us as Members of Parliament who want to take our work seriously , and that includes the Tobin tax ! 
Madam President , an omission appears to have been made . In the list of tabled motions for a resolution which you have just read out , no mention is made of the compromise motion tabled jointly by the PSE , ELDR , GUE / NGL and Greens / EFA Groups and by Mrs Kuntz and Mr Coûteaux . 
Mr Désir , I note your comment and the existence of this joint motion for a resolution . 
If the services of the Presidency confirm that this was correctly tabled , it will be included . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 . 00 p . m . 
 ( The sitting was closed at 8 . 14 p . m . ) 
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
Mr President , I simply wanted to pass on some news . There was a terrorist attack this morning in Madrid . 
Someone planted a car bomb and one person has died . 
On behalf of my Group , I once again condemn these terrorist acts . 
Thank you , Mrs Fraga Estévez . 
We had heard about this regrettable incident . 
Unfortunately , the terrorist murderers are once again punishing Spanish society . I note your comments with particular keenness , as you may expect , given that I too am Spanish . 
 ( The Minutes were approved ) 
Resumption of the session
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday , 21 January 2000 . 
Madam President , allow me to remind you that tomorrow will be the second anniversary of the Cermis tragedy . 
Two years ago , in Cavalese in Italy , an American aeroplane from the Aviano NATO base cut through the cables of a cable car during a low - flying exercise which exceeded safe limits , causing the deaths of more than 20 Europeans . 
Since then , the victims ' families , who have not had the consolation of justice , since the pilot responsible has not faced criminal charges , have been awaiting solicitous financial compensation from the United States at the very least . 
I therefore appeal to the President of this House and the President of the Commission for them to stand surety for immediate compensation from the U . S . authorities , and this is in order to uphold the rights of the victims ' families . 
Mrs Angelilli , thank you . I have taken note of your comment . 
Agenda
The next item is the order of business . 
Following a request to this effect , which I have received from a number of political groups , and following the meeting of the Conference of Presidents which has just been held , I propose that we add to the agenda a one and a half hour debate on a topical and urgent subject of major importance , pursuant to Rule 50 of our Rules of Procedure , on the subject of the European Union ' s reaction with regard to the talks in Austria on forming a government . 
If you decide to add this debate to the agenda , it will be introduced by speeches from Mr Seixas da Costa , President - in - Office of the Council , and Mr Romano Prodi , President of the Commission . 
Is there anyone who wishes to speak in favour of this proposal ? 
Madam President , I would like to express my support for the decision of the Conference of Presidents , and , since I publicly criticised the presidency in January , I would like to take this opportunity to say , both for myself and on behalf of the Socialist Group , that we now find the presidency ' s statements on this issue to be appropriate , and we agree on their basis , their importance and their form . 
Madam President , it would really be very difficult to imagine a debate which is more in accordance with Rule 50 of our Rules of Procedure . 
This debate is topical , exceptionally important and urgent . 
We therefore believe that the agenda should be amended to include it . 
 ( Applause ) 
Is there anyone who wishes to speak against this proposal ? 
Madam President , I shall speak against this proposal on the grounds of a principle which I consider absolutely vital with regard to observance of the Treaties , and with particular regard to Article 7 of the Treaty of Amsterdam . 
Madam President , until now we believed that the European Union was , according to the Treaty of Rome and the Treaty of Paris founding the European Communities , and subsequently the Union , an association of free , independent , sovereign states . 
Even though many developments cast doubt on this , we did believe , in spite of everything , that this was the case and , more recently , reference was made , albeit half - heartedly , to the principle of subsidiarity . 
Well , patently , if we do open this debate today , Madam President , as you are requesting and as the Conference of Presidents is requesting , on the basis of Rule 50 , we shall then be opening up a fearsome breach in the principle of the freedom and sovereignty of the national states and the free constitution of democratically elected governments , enabling some other majority in this Parliament , at some future time , to claim the right to interfere in the formation of a government even though it has assumed power on the basis of free , regular , peaceful and democratic elections within a Member State . 
If you ratify . . . 
Mr Gollnisch , excuse me , you have one minute . I know that you always take particular care to ensure that the Rules of Procedure are observed . 
Madam President , I thought I had three minutes . 
Do forgive me . 
If you ratify this development , then you are ratifying the development of the Union into a body which violates the sovereignty and the freedom of the Member States , and we should then have no option but to withdraw from such a Union . 
We have heard one speaker in favour and one against . 
I shall now , therefore , put this proposal for an amendment to the agenda to the vote . 
 ( Parliament gave its assent ) 
This debate is therefore added at the top of the order of business . 
TOPICAL AND URGENT DEBATE
The next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance . 
Talks in Austria on forming a government
The next item is the debate on the talks in Austria on forming a government . 
I shall immediately give the floor to Mr Seixas da Costa , President - in - Office of the Council . 
Madam President , President of the Commission , President - in - Office of the Council , the Group of the Party of European Socialists hopes that this debate will send three messages to the European public . 
Let it be noted that we are completely united on all three counts . 
Firstly , we wish to express our total support for , and our solidarity with , the statement of the Presidency - in - Office of the Council and the 14 Member States , because we believe that this statement is in accordance with the common values , and not just the political force , which we have all built together . 
In any event , these common values are in complete opposition to those held by the party ironically known as the Austrian Freedom Party . 
The Europe we are building is born of the bitter experiences we have all suffered , and the Socialist Group condemns the insults which have been directed at the President of the French Republic and the Belgian Government , but also at the Socialists , who are European citizens as well , because , at the moment , the Austrian Socialists are being described as traitors to their country . 
I will say one thing . For many years I was a traitor to my country ; at least that was General Franco ' s view . 
President Guterres was also a traitor in Salazar ' s eyes , and that is something that I believe should also be stated and defended by the PPE - DE . 
I also believe that the Commission , or President Prodi , has acted as a guardian of the Treaties . 
However , I would remind him that , during his inaugural debate , he described the Commission as a European government . 
A government must have more nerve and more courage . 
That is what I am asking President Prodi for at this moment . 
 ( Applause ) 
With all due respect to a Commissioner as effective as Mr Fischler , and given that we have heard contradictory comments , depending on the translation , with regard to a possible request by President Prodi for the resignation of Mr Fischler , I would be very grateful if this point could be clarified in this House . 
Secondly , Madam President , we wish to send a very clear message to the Austrian people . 
This is an appeal to the majority of Austrians who have not voted for Haider , who have voted for the clearly democratic options , committed to Europe , and I must point out that Mr Schüssel may have been Minister for Finance , but Chancellor Vranitzky also contributed to Austria ' s integration process . 
We should not be so politically partisan . 
The accession of Austria to the Community was a joint venture . 
We all took part in it , not just one group . 
Therefore , Madam President , I believe that it is our right and our obligation to ask the Austrians to reconsider and reflect , because this type of menace , which we have suffered before in Europe , may not only harm Austria , but it may also spread , and I say this bearing history in mind . 
Therefore , apart from the apology which Mr Schüssel has made , offering us all kinds of guarantees , as did Chamberlain and Daladier in 1938 in Munich , I would like to know whether the PPE intends to implement measures in relation to the Austrian People ' s Party , if it goes ahead with this mad project . 
Thirdly , if we do not stand up to this unnatural alliance , I can assure you that we can forget the European Union ' s main objective - enlargement - because , if we were Czechs , Slovenes or Hungarians , what would we say , faced with a neighbour who judges us on racial grounds and does not want us to enter ? 
I therefore think that this is a great day for European politics to commence . 
We support the Council and we believe that it is our right and our obligation to appeal to the Austrian people to seriously reconsider this completely crazy option . 
 ( Applause from the PSE Group ) 
Madam President , my group welcomes this debate because it is a defining moment . 
This is the first time in the history of the modern European project that we stand at the threshold of seeing the mainstreaming of a party of the extreme right . 
That is deeply disturbing . 
The FPÖ contends that if one reads their literature and their programme , there is much in it that one could share . 
That may be , but let me place on the record today a long and difficult experience which we Liberal Democrats had with the Austrian FPÖ in our Liberal International family . 
As early as 1986 , we had cause to believe that Mr Jörg Haider was not a man whose principles or attitudes were consistent with decency and modern liberalism . 
In November of 1991 , after a long internal debate in Liberal International and many visits to Vienna to discuss issues , we suspended the FPÖ from membership and in July 1993 we expelled them . 
We expelled them then and we continue to reject what Mr Haider stands for now . 
Let me share what we learned in that long experience . 
There were many in our ranks who said " read the text "  . 
There were many more in our ranks who said " read the subtext "  ,  " look at the context "  . 
Words in politics can be incendiary , can be inflammatory , or can be conciliatory . 
We found that Mr Jörg Haider , as a wordsmith , has been a voice for racism and for xenophobia . 
He is a man who plays on fear and who has exploited vulnerability . 
That is why this debate is important - to put down a marker that when you mainstream extremism , something profound is happening in Europe today . 
 ( Applause ) 
I hasten to add that our quarrel is not with the Austrian people . 
We respect the rights of the Austrian people to their own democratic process . 
We defend the rights and constitutional prerogatives of the Austrian people , but we here in the European Parliament have the duty to recall our fundamental values as set out in Article 6 of the Treaty - the values of freedom , democracy and respect for human rights . 
Every right - thinking person in this House believes that these are universal and indivisible without regard to colour , class or creed . 
We must promote and defend those rights , all the while saying to the people of Austria : our quarrel is not with you . 
I wish to say with regard to the initiative of the Portuguese Presidency that we support the spirit and the political intention behind it . 
It may not be an ideal initiative in terms of its structure but we accept Mr President - in - Office , that it is rooted in idealism and for that reason we are inclined to support it . 
I share with President Prodi a preference for the Community method and we must look at Article 6 and Article 7 of the Treaty . 
Article 7 talks about the possibility of suspension in the event of serious or persistent breaches of our fundamental values . 
We must find a way as institutions to benchmark and give meaning to this so that it has a reality and a substance . 
Then we can work together by the Community method to root out this cancer within our midst . 
I want to say Madame President some words to Mr Schüssel . 
Mr Schüssel is a man with an honourable record in European politics . 
He now intends to ride into government on the back of a political tiger . 
Mr Schüssel - you are assuming a very serious , personal , national and European responsibility . 
That responsibility , which you Mr Schüssel now take on , is to respect the letter and the spirit of the European Treaties . 
Finally , Madame President , this is a debate which touches on the heart of our democratic values and institutions and calls to mind that the price of liberty is eternal vigilance . 
On this continent , of all places , with the experience of hateful racism that we have suffered from in the past and at such great cost , we have to insist that today ' s debate is not about interference with the sovereign rights of a State . 
It is a dogged insistence by the democratically elected part of the institutions of this Union that we will not as Europeans countenance turning the clock back . 
 ( Loud applause ) 
Madam President , in my group ' s opinion , the European Union today faces a political and ethical challenge which is without precedent since the creation of the Union . 
The European Union has certainly previously known situations where there were people in a Member State government whose ideas and actions were in contradiction to the guiding values of the Union . 
However , with Haider and his men , we would see the extreme right , openly racist , anti - Semitic and xenophobic , promoted to the rank of co - ruler of our Community . 
Going along with such a prospect would be tantamount to testifying , albeit unwillingly , to the respectability of a political force which is not respectable . It would mean making the unacceptable commonplace on the scale of Europe as a whole , it would mean making nonsense of the European institutions ' solemn proclamations on the fundamental values which unite us and which we demand , rightly so , of applicants for membership . 
This is why we support the spirit of the statement made by the presidency and the 14 Member States , as well as that of the President of the European Parliament , insofar as , unlike the lacklustre and ambiguous statement made by the Commission , it aims to make people get the measure of the danger and to provoke a response . 
Of course , there can be no question of casting opprobrium upon the people of Austria . 
Any action which can be taken must , in our opinion , serve the twofold function of proscribing Haider without , however , isolating Austrian society . 
Democrats in this country now need our support more than ever . 
The great joining of forces in protest in Vienna on 12 November last year must now undergo developments suited to the new situation . 
We must have dialogue with them and join forces with them , stand at their side in order to offer the people of Austria some alternative prospects . 
Finally , we must ask ourselves : how did we come to be in this position ? 
Certainly , in the first instance , as far as Austrian political leaders are concerned , it is a matter of answering this existential question for the future of democracy , starting with those who have just taken the inordinate risk of giving the extreme right a boost . 
But , beyond that , no one , including the European Union , can , in our opinion , be exempted from asking themselves what grounds there are for permitting an unscrupulous demagogue to exploit the frustrations and fears generated by policies in which too many sectors of the population are disregarded . 
This debate is now before us , but each and every one of us , male and female , is going to assume their responsibilities without delay . 
 ( Applause ) 
Madam President , we could have been debating the need to reinforce the founding principles of the Union , so that we can uphold them together . Instead , we have been forced to debate the formal , substantial errors that have been made in the last few days . 
We are astonished by the political naivety of people who , with thoughtless words , have bolstered Mr Haider ' s position in Austria and made the Union look ridiculous , riding roughshod over Article 7 of the Treaty by announcing unconstitutional measures . 
We have never before seen such serious , clumsy interference in the internal affairs of a Member State . 
Of course , we cannot violate the founding values of Europe , and in this regard , the Italian Prime Minister stated that these principles are included in a treaty : he mentioned the Treaty of Copenhagen , which I , like you , have never heard of because it does not exist . 
Maybe he was referring to the Treaty of Amsterdam , Article 6 of which lists certain principles and Article 7 certain procedures , in order to establish that a Member State is seriously and continuously violating the principles referred to in Article 6 . 
However , up till now , Austria has committed no serious or persistent violation . 
Apart from amounting to interference , the statement by the Presidency is discriminatory because it authorises the penalisation of a population and denies these people their right to choose who to vote for . 
No political cohesion has so far come about , not even in the fight against organised crime , or in defence of the victims of genocide ; we do not have a currency that is even remotely stable or an economy which really does combat unemployment and poverty ; but it only took one minute of iconoclastic fury to destroy the Union ' s credibility . 
Sanctions can be imposed after the Treaties have been violated , but cannot be applied if a democratically elected party enters government . 
Otherwise , how will we deal with Communist countries which return to Communism : will we throw them out of the Union too if Communists enter into government , or will Stalin ' s grandchildren be forgiven for everything ? 
 ( Applause from the right ) It is via diplomacy , persuasion , knowledge , and solidarity , and not with threats or via anti - constitutional means that the institutions can ensure respect for themselves and for principles . 
Bilateral relations involve the States , so the 14 do not come into this . 
This is riding roughshod over the European institutions in order to defend political ways of thinking , with an incompetence worthy of parties which have just emerged from totalitarian regimes . It is not what you would expect of the representatives of democratic traditions . 
So many things set us apart from Mr Haider - as we have often written - including his claim to the completely Italian Alto Adige region . However , we already knew this . 
However , today we are concerned to learn that other representatives of the Union seem to have turned their backs on the Union ' s democratic role . 
We support legality and democracy as expressed by the peoples , and favour upholding national sovereignty as long as this does not violate the principles of the Treaty or human rights . 
We believe in Europe , while it seems that others have started the process of breaking up the Union . 
This is what has come of rushing headlong into enlargement and not clearly defining roles and tasks . 
We have built a Europe with an unstable market , not a Europe with principles , rights and politics . 
And these are the consequences ! 
Therefore , we can but call on the Commission to continue to show restraint and praise those who are working to safeguard the independence and sovereignty of the Austrian people , thereby ensuring that this people retains its freedoms and maintains good relations with other peoples . 
Madam President , today we have an appointment with hypocrisy . Here we have a Council which has managed to flout the treaty and employ a method completely unrelated to Articles 6 and 7 which make it possible to condemn a State in the event of a serious and persistent breach . 
In the event there is absolutely no serious and persistent breach in Austria . 
There are risks , as we are all aware , but in the event there is absolutely no serious and persistent breach . 
If we were to apply the criteria of Articles 6 and 7 or the Copenhagen criteria to the European Union , then , most certainly , this European Union could not become a member , although the countries of Eastern Europe are required to meet them . 
And if we were to speak of serious and persistent breaches , then perhaps we could mention some Member States , such as Italy and France , first and third , respectively , in the list of countries condemned by the Council of Europe and the Strasbourg court . 
We could mention , my Belgian friends , Belgium and the Dutroux case , the dozens upon dozens of children kidnapped , tortured , raped and murdered by leading personalities in this country , where inquiries are bogged down , making no headway . 
We could , if one third of the Members of Parliament so requested , require that the Council and the Commission look into the matter . 
We could ask ourselves why the Austrians are rejecting 10 years , 13 years of party politics which has made one country - Austria - corrupt and rotten , just as it is now corrupting countries such as Italy , Belgium and other European Union Member States . 
We might well wonder why 76 % of Belgian citizens have no faith in the justice system in their country or why 56 % of French citizens have no confidence in their country ' s system of justice , and 53 % of Italian citizens have absolutely no confidence in Italian justice . . . 
 ( The President cut the speaker off ) 
Madame President , my group , the EDD , and especially my party , are very concerned by this debate . 
We cannot , and we do not , support in any way the sentiments and politics of Herr Haider and we deplore his references to the Third Reich . 
We also , however , deplore the fact that your Parliament should consider interfering in the policies of an elected government of any country , especially one which is part of the European Union . 
My party at home are certainly not racists , but we do not accept the rule or interference of the European Union very well . 
Are you going to interfere with Great Britain ' s Parliament if we are elected ? 
Madame President , the people of Austria have spoken by electing Herr Haider to their Parliament . 
I believe they gave him 28 % of the vote so there is going to be a coalition government . 
Your Parliament , may I suggest , Madame President , should wait to see if the party of Haider has an effect on the policies of that country . 
Then , and only then , might you consider if human rights are affected . 
Your Parliament may consider measures appropriate to counter that situation and then , Madame President and only then , may your Parliament consider interfering in the constitutional affairs of a country of the European Union . 
Madam President , as a representative of the Freedom Party , I respect the concerns some of my fellow MEPs have with regard to the democratic developments in Austria . 
My reaction may come as a surprise when I say that I personally am at a loss as to the heightened sensitivity displayed towards Austria in matters of respect for human rights , having a sense of responsibility for one ' s own past , and the stability of democracy . 
Austria must take the responsibility on its own shoulders for the often dubious image other countries tend to have of it , rightly or wrongly . 
The refusal of our government , down through the years , to acknowledge our complicity in the horrors of the Second World War , together with their refusal to properly compensate the Jewish victims and those forced into hard labour , have done a great deal to bolster this negative image . 
This FPÖ has now entered into a coalition with the ÖVP , due to the outcome of elections held on 3 October 1999 , when the previous government was voted out of office . 
This is the citizen of a state ' s prerogative , for it is the founding principle of a democracy . 
When the talks between the SPÖ and ÖVP broke down , the Socialists attempted to form a minority government and asked the FPÖ for their support . 
We were offered three ministerial posts - you can read it for yourself in the newspapers - the very party that is being denounced as fascistic here ! 
When we suddenly refused this offer , an inflammatory and rabble - rousing propaganda campaign began that is beyond our comprehension to this day . 
The FPÖ party is established in Austria ' s political landscape . 
The head of the government of one of the nine provinces belongs to this party and it is involved in all the other provincial governments . 
What many Austrians are wondering today is why their democratic decision has suddenly been interpreted as an expression of a fascistic cast of mind , and why the campaign did not begin until the Freedom Party rejected the support of a minority government comprising the SPÖ ? 
There is prejudice at work here , which - without going into our programme - is reducing the darkest hour of European history to a political spectacle . 
I am filled with disgust when certain of our opponents get mileage out of the millions of deaths that took place in the gas chambers of the concentration camps as cheap propaganda , as , for example , the Italian MEP Bertinotti did yesterday on Italian TV when he accused Mr Haider of denying the holocaust . 
Shame on you Mr Bertinotti ! 
You might have run out of political arguments but that does not give you the right to use those who were murdered as cheap propaganda . 
Denouncing a democratically elected politician as a Nazi does not make you an anti - fascist ! 
On the contrary , you are deriding the true victims of National Socialism and playing down what the fascist dictators did . 
Your behaviour stems from your own prejudices , you are dispensing with any form of political debate and you are displaying precisely the kind of behaviour you claim to oppose . 
The attacks against Austria ' s new government and the attempts to exert political influence in a Member State are an insult to the Austrian people . 
That is why we are indebted to the Commission for taking a stance that separates it from the rest . 
The new coalition agreement is about reforming a democracy , the rights of the opposition , commitment to compensating those forced into hard labour . . . . 
 ( The President cut the speaker off ) 
Madam President , to begin with , I would like to make one thing abundantly clear : Austria is not in danger of experiencing a resurgence of a one - party system or of a totalitarian system of right - wing persuasion . 
Austria is a stable democracy ; one in which human rights and fundamental freedoms are guaranteed under the constitution and are afforded the protection of an independent judiciary . 
Austria is a cosmopolitan country and xenophobia and discrimination have no place there . 
There is nothing unusual about what is happening in Austria : there has been a changeover of power following democratic elections , in consequence of which an old system was voted out and a stable parliamentary majority prepared to carry out the necessary economic and social reforms was sought and found . 
There will be a functioning majority and likewise a functioning opposition . 
The Austrian People ' s Party , which I represent here in this Parliament , used to be and still is a party that has consistently spoken up for the integration of my country into the EU and feels deeply attached to the community of values that is the European Union , and likewise its basic political principles of deepening and enlargement . 
We respect and accept the discussion that is taking place and also appreciate the concerns that are being voiced in many of our Member States as to the way ahead for Austria . 
Our understanding springs from the knowledge that our history of the recent past has bequeathed to us a political responsibility of special importance in the present . 
Our country was not just the first victim of the Hitler dictatorship , many people were perpetrators too , although I refute any suggestion of collective guilt . 
The ÖVP played no small part in helping Austria find its way into the European Union . 
My country ' s place is not outside the European Union but in it . . . 
 . . . , with all the rights and commitments that this entails ! 
Any future government must therefore be judged according to the values and principles it professes to in its manifesto , and not according to the prejudgements put about both by political adversaries and the international media . 
A declared belief in human rights , democracy and the rule of law , in an honest reappraisal of Austria ' s role in the past , in passing on information on the gravest crime against humanity in the 20th century , the holocaust , will also be reflected in the fundamental accord underlying a future coalition government between the ÖVP and FPÖ . 
My party can be relied upon to see to it that my country holds firm to the course of European politics and continues to be rooted in the European community of values ! 
 ( Applause ) 
Madam President , Mr President - in - Office of the Council , Representatives of the Commission , it is a black day for Austria and for Europe . 
Not even Mr Sichrovsky ' s web of lies or Mrs Stenzel ' s words of appeasement can do anything to change that . 
For the day has dawned : two irresponsible politicians , consumed with a lust for power , are selling Austria ' s image , political role , and to some extent even its economic interests , down the river ! 
 ( Applause , heckling ) 
They are trading this in for a head of government ' s position and for membership of a government . 
They are just as prepared to take on board the fact that Austria will go from being a revered country to a reviled one , as they are its threatened isolation and thus to some extent that of its citizens . 
I believe - as do many who for years have campaigned against Haider and his brand of politics , and especially my colleagues in the Social Democratic delegation in this Chamber - that the various measures announced by the international community , insofar as they do not have any bearing on the government and its representatives , are grave and also inappropriate . 
However , my criticism - and I freely admit this - my rage , is directed exclusively against those who have provoked these reactions and continue to do so , Messrs Schüssel and Haider and their parties ,  . . . 
 . . . and that includes their representatives in this Parliament . 
Mr Poettering , it is interesting to note that you are in almost as difficult a position as I am , albeit for different reasons , for you are having to defend something that goes against your convictions . 
You are having to defend a certain Mr Schüssel , you are having to consort with Schüssel as he is today and who , as I understand it , was recently told not to come to the representatives of the Christian Democratic party ' s summit meeting . 
The argument that Mr Poettering himself used has come into play , i . e . that it would only be possible to deprive Haider of his mystique if he were to be integrated into the political system . 
However , in my view , he will be no more able or willing to be integrated into this , into our political system , and into the Europe of today , than any other extreme right - wing movement . 
Anyone who feeds on prejudice towards foreigners and ethnic minorities and gives succour to these prejudices , whose programme features parochialism and anti - liberalism , who displays loutish behaviour and arrogance in their international relations , and who has never yet distanced themselves clearly and unequivocally from National Socialism , has neither the intention nor inclination to integrate ! 
 ( Applause ) 
This historic weight of guilt falls on the shoulders of the Conservatives for having consorted with the wolf of their own free will and waiting to be devoured . 
That is how the wolf - albeit on account of the self - sacrifice of the ÖVP - is sustained rather than kept in check . 
I understand that Europe and the civilised world wants to have as little as possible to do with such a government . 
However , by the same token , there is another Austria , the one where umpteen thousand people demonstrated against the FPÖ having any involvement in government , and who will continue to demonstrate against this government . 
I urge you to support this Europe and to support and help this Austria ! 
 ( Applause ) 
The more powerful this Europe becomes and the more vigilant it is towards authoritarian tendencies in the Europe of today , the more successful we will be in striking at the roots of right - wing extremism . 
For Europe is and will remain the most potent guarantee we have against xenophobia and demagogy , or even against a relapse into barbarism . 
Please support the Austrian people against this government ! 
 ( Applause ) 
Madam President , this is an historic moment , as it is now , at last , quite clear to us all that the European Union has gradually developed into a community of values . 
We see this , now that the government of one Member State is being joined by a party which , as is known , does not respect all these values . 
I would also like to say that the position of the fourteen states emanating from the Council was justified , as in a way this is also a matter of the composition of the government of the European Union , meaning this is also a matter for the Council and not merely an internal affair of Austria ' s . 
As Members of Parliament , we must pay particular attention to the fact that the work begun to establish fundamental rights is more important than ever . It is more important than ever that respect for , and non - violation of , human values and the rights of minorities , including the rights of all those who live within the territory of the European Union , form an essential component in the rule of law principle of the EU , and , for this reason , the Charter of Fundamental Rights must be made legally binding . 
It must not be allowed to remain a mere declaration . 
As important is the fact that Austria ' s forces of democracy should be given support , as none of us wishes to isolate the country . 
We know that most Austrians respect these values . 
They have also shown how they feel : not all the demonstrations have taken place outside Austria . 
Doubtless there are also a lot of protest voters on the scene that have wanted a change in Austrian policy for a long time . 
I believe Parliament should support these forces of democracy . 
I also appeal to the Austrian President , that he might yet look into all the possibilities for forming a government made up of democratic forces . 
Madam President , I would simply like to stress the value of the attitude that the leader of our group , Francis Wurtz , reminded us of just now . 
I welcome the statements by the Presidency of the Council and the position of the 14 countries which have rejected official contact with an Austrian Government that includes Jörg Haider ' s party . 
The fact that we are stressing this is all the more important because , as you know , we essentially disagree with the policies made by Europe , with its economic and social policies , its democratic deficit and the Member States ' involvement in the terrible war in the Balkans . 
Our normal disagreement further emphasises our appreciation today : this is extraordinary because the danger of a resurgence of an irrational , neo - nazi element in Europe is extraordinary . 
This danger does not concern Austria , it concerns Europe . 
We are talking about us , not Austria . 
We know the social causes which contribute , along with unemployment and instability , to fuelling tendencies towards this ; we know the accompanying cultural causes - xenophobia , racism - but with the inability and unwillingness of these extreme right - wing groups to settle accounts with nazism , we cannot fail to point out the possibility of an explosive mixture being created in Europe . 
Not only the Alpine region , but all our countries are involved : the conditions are being created whereby democracy and European civilisation may once again come under threat . 
The position taken by the presidency has shown that it is aware of this tragedy for civilisation . 
Europe is showing that it has not forgotten Auschwitz ; Europe is coming face to face with the suffering of the past . 
Now , though , it should follow through with its actions , and the first to follow through should be the Commission , which , however , has been obscure and weak on this , making the value of the presidency ' s position even more apparent . 
This is the change we must impose on the Commission ' s action . 
Madam President , despite the fundamental democratic principle of the respect for human rights and the freedom and sovereignty of peoples , which opposes fascism , nazism or communism , both new and old , and despite all the previous speakers talking about the sovereignty of the Austrian people , we are today witnessing this sovereignty being denied by Parliament . 
In the manifesto of the Austrian Democratic Freedom Party , there is nothing to justify the accusations that it is attacking the principles of freedom , democracy and respect for human rights , fundamental freedoms or the rule of law , enshrined in Article 6 of the Treaties . 
I would , however , like to draw your attention to the fact that the President - in - Office , who has been so critical of Austria , has recently consigned the inhabitants of Macao to the sovereign rule of the People ' s Democratic Republic of China . 
Perhaps , in order to strengthen the Union ' s democracy , it would now be appropriate to isolate Austria and criminalise a party that was democratically elected by the Austrian citizens , while bringing Turkey and its " Grey Wolves " into Europe . 
Madam President , we are debating an extremely serious issue . 
We are debating nothing less than the presence in a Member State ' s government of a political force whose doctrine and principles are incompatible with the conceptual and moral bases of the Union enshrined in its founding Treaties . 
A simple reading of chapter 4 , article 1 of the Austrian Freedom Party ' s manifesto is enough to make any democratic conscience shudder . 
The view that ethnicity is the defining factor of a nation and the claim that one ethnic group has superiority over others , as is written here , revives old ghosts of the century which we have just left behind , which some historians have described as the century of horrors ; horrors which the unacceptable philosophy behind Mr Haider ' s manifesto has stirred up once again , to our amazement . 
Of course Austria is a sovereign nation and of course we must respect the principle of non - interference in the internal affairs of a Member State . 
However , that is not the problem . 
The question is whether the Union can remain indifferent to the formation of a government in a Member State which includes such a party . 
Our answer to this crucial question is no . 
Leaving aside strategic and tactical considerations , leaving aside possible exonerations based on other people ' s behaviour and above and beyond party and electoral interests , the Spanish delegation of the People ' s Group of this Parliament , in full agreement with the Spanish People ' s Party and the Spanish Government , clearly expresses its full agreement with the statement of 31 January by the Portuguese Presidency of the Council . We agree with its substance , its tone and its scope . 
 ( Applause ) 
Konrad Adenauer once said - and he knew what he was saying - that the surest way to pacify a tiger was to allow it to devour you . 
History is a compendium of events which could have been avoided . 
Therefore , Madam President , the Union and the Assembly must send an unequivocal message , rejecting of the tiger of intolerance , xenophobia and totalitarianism , so as not to add one more mistake to the long list of abdications , renunciations and opportunism which mark Europe ' s past and for which we have paid such a heavy price . 
 ( Loud applause ) 
Madam President , the European Union was built upon the idea ' never again '  , meaning never again do we want to see xenophobia , concentration camps , anti - Semitism , heightened nationalism or war . 
The one and only significance of the European Union is the will to transcend the atrocious history of the twentieth century which gave the coup de grâce to any ideal of humanism within the heart of Europe , and which is still highly topical today . 
It is not true to say that , when a government forms an alliance with neo - Fascists somewhere in Europe , this is merely a question of national sovereignty . 
For this Union of ours is not a grouping of neighbouring nation states who are simply coming to mutual arrangements to improve their collective circumstances . 
It is a Community that is destined to exist , in which , when the main thing is under threat , when values are under threat , all democrats must bend over backwards to find solutions to ensure that the mistakes of the past are never made again . 
Let us learn the lessons of the past . 
In the thirties , when Adolf Hitler was democratically elected , although with a minority , many people thought that it was not as bad as all that and , Mr Poettering , in France , a number of men and women , on the right wing but perhaps of other political persuasions too , thought ,  ' Better Hitler in France than the Front Populaire . ' 
They put their own petty squabbles first , and the rest is history . 
We must make a rapid , strong and united response . 
I would have liked to hear your discussion with the Austrian President , Mr Poettering . We are well aware that he is very embarrassed today at the dirty deal that government has done in forming such an alliance . 
So our response must be rapid and strong . 
Of course , the Treaty provides us with a barrier when things become intolerable ; I was almost going to say ' irreparable '  . 
History has taught us that Fascists start to blow hot and cold : using heated words first , in populist , xenophobic speeches , and then cool words in order to make themselves acceptable to institutions and to infiltrate them gradually , poisoning them , until the day they start to take action . 
And when that day comes , it is too late . 
So our Treaty has made provision for barriers for the time when it is too late , but we are not at that point : today we have to take steps to ensure that we do not get to that point . 
We must therefore find a political solution . 
I support the Council proposals in this , while deploring a certain lack of strength , a certain spinelessness , on the part of the Commission which will , however , have to be vigilant on a day - by - day basis , with determination over time , since Fascists count on the spinelessness of democracy , they count on time to wear us down and they hope to impose their views in the end . 
Our response must be rapid . 
If today we do not staunchly support the Council , then history will judge us , saying that we achieved the political equivalent of the Munich Agreement . 
Madam President , I am pleased about the fact that , in Austria , the will of the large majority of the people is being respected and that this formation of government constitutes , in my eyes , a huge victory for democracy . 
Let there be no doubt about it : we decline with thanks a Europe which develops into a kind of " big brother " and which keeps watch over left - wing political correctness in one Member State or another in a Stalinist way and using Stalinist methods . 
European democracy and Austrian democracy should not receive any lessons from anybody and certainly not from a Belgian Government that embraces corrupt parties financed by arms dealers and that appointed the leader of such a corrupt party , which was condemned by the court , to the post of European Commissioner . 
Today , we thank the Austrian people for this democratic triumph which is important to all nations within Europe and to anyone who feels particularly strongly about freedom and freedom of speech . 
Madam President , this debate was opened by Mr Da Costa , who merely confirms that the EU presidency is trying to influence the composition of a government of one of the Member States . 
This debate , and the background to it , reinforced the point that the Council , the Commission and this Parliament itself are dominated by Socialists . 
My delegation of 37 Conservative and Unionist Members from the United Kingdom reject absolutely the underlying philosophy , programme and tone of Austria ' s Freedom Party . 
We share the widespread outrage at its attitude to history , in particular World War II , but also its policies on enlargement , on immigration , on race and its attitude to the European Union itself . 
We were also outraged , however , at the tolerance of the left for the tyranny , the terror and the excesses of the former USSR . 
Even today , surely it is high time for the Party of European Socialists to break their fraternal links with China ' s Communist Party . 
Not a word was said by these same EU governments about coalition governments involving fellow - travelling communists in French or Italian governments , or in German state governments , or even the British government ' s willingness to promote those with terrorist associations as ministers in Northern Ireland today . 
This , Madam President , is the hypocrisy of the left . 
So we condemn that hypocrisy and the double standards , especially of the British government and the other largely socialist heads of EU governments and include that of the United States . 
We should recognise , however , that the democratic process sometimes produces uncomfortable results . 
This requires action to address the underlying causes , including an examination of the electoral process itself . 
That should be our task , not political posturing . 
Madam President , Representative of the Council , Commissioner , a week ago , the big international Holocaust Conference ended in Stockholm . 
Its aim was to combat the forgetfulness and the evil in today ' s society which takes the form of xenophobia and neo - nazism . 
It would be an insult to the idea behind this conference and to the whole of the international community to invite , at this time , into the institutions of the EU , a xenophobic party which flirts with Nazi ideas . 
Secondly , I want to say that we must be consistent in our own behaviour and in our evaluations . 
We demand of the candidate States and of the countries with which the EU cooperates under the Lomé Agreement that they should respect human rights and show tolerance towards their neighbours . 
We must do the same as far as we ourselves are concerned . 
That is why we are reacting against this carry - on in Austria . 
It is not acceptable to continue as if nothing had happened . 
We are at a watershed in the history of the European Union . 
The Union is not only an economic community but also a community of values , something which we take seriously . Something has happened . 
The European Union is in the process of finding its soul and getting some steel in its spine . 
Madam President , as everyone has said , this is a very important day . It is the day of the first debate of European political life . 
And this is not pure chance . 
I feel that today ' s meeting is not a meeting of Europe , our institutions , with Austria or Mr Haider ' s party . 
It is the meeting of Europe with itself , with its raison d ' être , with the reasons why we are here in this Chamber . 
This Chamber was not made for goods , it was not made for money . 
This Chamber , and the European institutions , were build to uphold values , morality and a certain spirit . 
In the twentieth century , we have had experience of the fact that democracies can find themselves at risk , and morality , values and the spirit which I mentioned can be mortally affected by viruses which have just one name : nationalist glorification , populism and the concept of racial superiority . 
The fact is that it is enough to read the manifesto of Mr Haider ' s party , the FPÖ , to find nationalist glorification , populism and racial superiority in every chapter . 
Reading only one sentence which my friend , Mr Vidal - Quadras , has previously mentioned ,  " The nation is defined by its location , culture and race , locally , ethnically and culturally . " 
Well , we cannot accept such statements . 
If Europe has any meaning , and - my friends will pardon me telling them - if Christian democracy has any meaning , if the history of Christian democracy has any meaning , then it must declare itself radically opposed to the statements made in this manifesto and , whatever excellent reasons are given whenever history serves the same dish up again , must reject any agreement with this type of ideology and this type of organisation . 
This is the reason why I feel that the European Parliament , which has more freedom of action and more freedom to speak than the Council or the Commission , must pay tribute to those people in the various States and European institutions who had the courage to say no , and it must say , Madam President , that you made a statement on our behalf which does us credit , and in clear terms declare , without prevarication , its opposition to and condemnation of imminent events in Austria , recalling the statement made on the day of the Munich Agreement by a great French Christian Democrat who said that , if you are going to have to say no , then the best time to do so is right at the beginning . 
 ( Applause ) 
