So long as we continue to have unanimity , so long as yesterday the Dutch Government was able to impose those EUR 167 million as an ultimatum and so long as a government with Mr Haider will soon be telling us what cultural activities we can pursue , we will never progress . 
That is why it is very important for the Intergovernmental Conference to take important decisions and to cut free so that the European Parliament ' s efforts to create a meaningful cultural impetus within the European area may be rid of this constraint by all the governments . 
Madam President , I absolutely agree with the rapporteur ' s analysis and I would also like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Culture , Mr Gargani , for his praiseworthy work in a mediation process that was also , considerably difficult . 
Of course , we felt the need to simplify and consolidate the previous programmes , but everyone hoped that the Culture programme could help to promote , for example , the unique features of each cultural sector , even - and I could say especially - of the unique features of less well - known sectors . 
We hope that this , at the least , will come about during the evaluation process . 
We sincerely believe in the validity of cultural action , among other things in terms of making a contribution to the social , as well as economic , development of a people . 
And a fully - fledged Europe can compete with the rest of the world and fully rediscover its roots , highlight its common cultural heritage and enhance and restore dignity to cultural and linguistic islands that until now were less well - known . 
As for the important educational task which the European Union must carry out as regards culture , one of the programme ' s most obvious limitations is the level of funding - we have heard this several times - which censures the fact that the Council at least - certainly not the Commissioner - is not completely aware of the importance of cultural action : the document which prioritises the economic factor over social integration also bears witness to this . 
The overall growth of the European Union and the awareness of being European citizens : this is why we believe that the Culture 2000 programme , albeit with a scarcity of funds , can make a considerable contribution to this great common goal . 
Madam President , I will add to the unanimity of the evening and say that I support the adoption of Culture 2000 and add my thanks to the rapporteur , Mr Graça Moura , who took over from our former colleague Nana Mouskouri . 
Both of them have done a first - class job . 
Alongside the debate we had earlier on in the day , culture may not seem that important , but it is ; and we have to be careful in the European Parliament not to allow the urgent to get in the way of the important . 
Why do I say that culture is important ? 
Well in simple economic terms , Europe ' s culture adds to genuine prosperity . 
Where would Europe ' s tourism industry be without the richness of our culture ? 
But , more importantly than that , cultural activities are what make mankind civilised . 
Culture is at the root of our democratic beliefs ; and an uncultured society is not going to sustain tolerance and freedom and democracy . 
Cultural diversity is important , and it is under threat . 
However , it is not under threat from Europe . 
Many people in my country say they see British culture being under threat , for example , from Portugal , from Germany , from Finland , for heaven ' s sake . 
We do drink port wine , and we do like German beer , and we even use Finnish saunas , but it is not from Europe that culture is under threat . 
What I do see right across Europe is people drinking Coca Cola , eating hamburgers , wearing baseball caps , watching Hollywood films and often doing all this at the same time . 
Now I do not believe that protectionism and regulation is the way of defending Europe ' s culture , but I do believe in lending a helping hand when we can . 
That is what Culture 2000 is about . 
So , I say to the Council of Ministers : Keep this programme genuinely under review . 
Are we doing enough ? 
And , I say to Madame Reding , thank you for the support and the help you have given so far , keep up the good work , we are on your side . 
Madam President , I too would like to warmly thank the rapporteur , Graa Moura , and Commissioner Reding , for their contribution to the creation of this programme . 
The Culture 2000 programme was finalised at the end of last year as a result of conciliation between Parliament and the Council . 
The outcome can be considered reasonable , when we take into account the fact that the adoption of the programme called for a unanimous decision to be made in the Council . 
We have to hope that at the forthcoming IGC we will also end up with qualified majority decisions in the area of culture . 
It is really strange that legislation that adheres to the codecision procedure when it is being debated requires unanimity for it to be passed in the Council . 
The framework programme on culture is replacing the present Kaleidoscope , Ariane and Raphael programmes . 
When implementation of the programme begins , I hope in particular that the scope it offers for literature and the translation of books can be utilised to the full . 
I believe and hope that , despite the assault on us all of the new technology , literature will maintain its status . 
We need the depth of spirit that literature provides in the midst of a culture that has a short attention span and is inclined towards the superficial . 
Literature likewise plays an important part in the way it transmits our cultural heritage , increases mutual familiarity and preserves linguistic wealth and the diversity of tongues . 
In this connection , I am very glad to say that soon after the Socrates and Culture 2000 programmes get under way officially at the meeting of the Council of Ministers in March in Lisbon , the country holding the presidency of the EU is to organise a conference to discuss the situation of public libraries . 
I hope that this conference will also encourage the Commission to take the issue of libraries into active consideration in the fifth framework programme in respect of the information society . 
Madam President , Commissioner , rapporteur , ladies and gentlemen , somehow or other , today ' s agenda has come full circle . 
We have had a great deal to say today about Europe as a community of values , about tolerance , human dignity , human rights , a positive approach to the enlargement process , transparency and respect for each other . 
Youth , education and cultural policies are important tools for creating these values , for giving the citizens confidence in the European Union and making it credible in their eyes . 
The funding approved by the Council for the cultural programme does not do justice to the importance of cultural and educational policy and of this programme to the European Union ' s goals . 
Cultural activity creates identity . 
Cultural activity is an expression of individuality , of an individual ' s own personality ; it builds relationships and communicates . 
We want a colourful Europe . 
We want a Europe based on the principle of diversity within unity . 
We want people to understand and learn to appreciate differences . 
That is why we spoke in favour of breaking down the budget , the allocation of funds that is , into the different types of measure . 
That is why we opposed concentrating heavily on large networks and network structures , because we want to promote the small and medium - sized entities and activities performed by individuals ; because we want to see thousands of flowers bloom . 
I would like to second what the previous speaker had to say . 
There is a contradiction in terms - unanimity principle , codecision procedure , and Conciliation Committee - and it is one we must resolve if we want to strengthen , and not further weaken the principles of cultural policy that are to create a European consciousness . 
Madam President , as we have heard , all the groups have a common political enemy in the Council . 
It is not by chance that the Committee on Culture ' s decisions are constantly ending up in the conciliation procedure , for one or other Member State in the Council always holds culture hostage to other interests . 
In this way , the unanimity principle has shown itself to be a blockading instrument of the first order . 
The battle for a workable compromise lasted almost two years , and now , at long last , the European Parliament can give the go - ahead . 
The Council could not be moved , not even when the precursor programmes Kaleidoscope , Ariane and Raphael finished . 
A pilot programme was called for to bridge the gap . 
This showed up the weaknesses of the European Union ' s cultural policy activities once again . 
The political fight over funding and programme structuring is out of all proportion to the volume of support . 
Out of 410 applications in 1999 only 55 projects with a low overall volume of EUR 6 . 07 million could be considered . 
The Council was not prepared in the case of this particular programme to accommodate Parliament to the tune of even a single euro ! 
And so the moderate sum of 167 million will stand until 2004 . 
That is the same as a single , medium - sized , German opera house ' s expenditure over the same period , when here in Europe this sum has been earmarked for 29 countries over a period of five years ! 
There is a blatant discrepancy here ! 
And so we are going to have to be content , albeit very grudgingly , with the fact that we have at least managed to achieve something in terms of content . 
Previous speakers have already kindly pointed this out . 
We can only hope that it will , after all , be possible to persuade the Council to have a change of heart one day . 
Perhaps the Council will come to understand that cultural activities do the European Union good , not harm ! 
Cultural cooperation - and this was also mentioned earlier - truly creates identity , far more so than any transport directive , however important it might be . 
Providing support for culture meets with wide - spread acceptance , and this certainly cannot be said of all policy decisions . 
What , may I ask , is the Council afraid of ? 
Madam President , whoever has the honour , like myself , to chair the Committee on Culture , cannot fail to agree with the comments from various Members and can but congratulate the rapporteur , and Commissioner Reding , with whom he worked and who , even during the conciliation process , had difficult moments and opposed the Council - you have heard this said by everyone . 
I have noticed how the principle of a necessary culture at European organisational level has been firmly asserted , but there are few opportunities to address all the requests that the European States will make . 
I shall simply stress my own personal complaint because , in the end , we did not manage to adopt a review clause . 
However , Mrs Reding was certainly receptive and farsighted , and personally undertook to review the issue and carry out a comprehensive assessment within a few years , and therefore to change the situation . 
The cultural programmes launched in years past - Kaleidoscope , Ariane and Raphael - are being replaced by a single programme , Culture 2000 , where - and I must stress this here very forcefully - the rapporteur censures a position which should give the European Parliament cause for reflection - as someone said this afternoon - but which still underlines the huge importance of being part of a vast community where cultural interpretation is a democratic factor . 
This is not rhetoric , but the new embodiment of a modern liberalism which unites the European States and constitutes a turning point for the European Parliament and the Commission . 
We agree with this approach and despite the lack of funds , this evening ' s result will serve to greatly boost this strategy and this opportunity for Europe , which will then give rise to an economic factor and a growth factor ; culture then , and an institutional aspect , the basis for structuring a vast community , a prerequisite for economic growth , and not the complete opposite , as Europe , in its cultural habits , has perhaps been used to viewing things in the past . 
Man and culture are priorities , and culture can result in economic growth . 
Let us contemplate this result , derive satisfaction from it and grant ourselves a licence to fully embrace this worthwhile strategy . 
Madam President , may I first thank Mr Graça Moura for weaving his way through the rather tough textiles and fibres that have made up this conciliation tapestry . 
It seems to me when entering the conciliation process for Culture 2000 , having a poet to lead us in our endeavours is entirely appropriate . 
Again , because these conciliations are not entirely straight forward , we have to thank Vice - President Imbeni for his exemplary negotiating skills in the convoluted field of ensuring that cultural expenditure is wisely deployed and given to us in our Community . 
The fundamental question , it seems to me , that faces this Parliament , the Commission and the Council is : What is Europe ? 
What does it mean and what does Europe give us over and above the parameters of our national boundaries ? 
Europe is its people , its history and now its collectivity ; but the reason why Culture 2000 is so important to us is for this : I will wager that when we ask the question -  ' What is Europe ? '  - we answer it by saying ,  ' It is our art , it is our literature and it is our heritage . ' 
That is what Culture 2000 represents . 
It represents the possibility of sustaining a European identity in the twenty - first century , an identity which eschews the echoes of division , of war , of poverty , of opportunity , of poverty dans la realité . 
And more than this - and this is more prosaic , Madam President , it means that we have the ability to learn from previous policy initiatives by putting them into action in new programmes that are comprehensive , that are cross - cutting and that benefit our creative industries to the extent that they now require . 
It promotes mobility , and it opens the doors of culture to the socially disadvantaged and excluded . 
My only regret is that in promoting this programme we do not have sufficient money to match our aspirations and ensure our ability to deliver . 
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , we have now come to the end of a long road . 
Following the conciliation stage , our institutions can now formally adopt the new ' Culture 2000 ' framework programme . 
We shall thus , in the course of the next five years , have a tool perfectly suited to developing clear , well - structured and , I am sure , successful measures in order to promote the cultural sector . 
It is with great satisfaction that I today welcome this ' happy ending ' in this House , and I thank you for it . 
I wish to thank everyone in this Parliament who worked to achieve this successful outcome to the conciliation process . 
I should like to express especial thanks to the Committee on Culture , Youth , Education , the Media and Sport , particularly to its rapporteur , Mr Graça Moura , its chairman , Mr Gargani , the European Parliament delegation and the leaders of the political groups , the Conciliation Committee and its chairman , Mr Imbeni . 
They all made a vital constructive and balanced contribution . 
Throughout the negotiations , they were of great help and it must be said that the difficult and occasionally tiresome negotiations were nonetheless completed in record time . 
We now have a framework programme , the first of its type for the cultural sector , and this programme makes it possible for us to plan our action from a new perspective and to work to promote culture in a more comprehensive , but also more thorough and detailed manner . 
I would like to express my delight , with you , at this pleasing outcome . In spite of a budget situation which does not match up to our ambitions , these results will now enable us to approach the future positively and I would like to pick up on what Mr Gargani has just said , that the Commission made a statement regarding a mid - term assessment . 
It stated that on the occasion of the report it must draw up in accordance with Article 7 of the European Parliament and Council decision , it would carry out an assessment of the results of the programme , and this assessment will also cover the financial resources in the context of the Community financial perspectives . 
If need be , the report shall contain a proposal to amend the decision , and this should be achieved by 30 June 2002 . 
Ladies and gentlemen , this is a formal commitment , not just words on paper . 
All this must lead us to intensify our action in favour of developing a common cultural area , within which our cultures can flourish further in all their unique features , in all their diversity , but may also be mutually enriched and the other citizens of Europe may participate fully in them . 
It is thanks , too , to Parliament ' s action , preferring a number of small - scale measures to be carried out close to the citizens ' cultural roots rather than vast measures on a spectacular scale . 
This is going to lead us to make ' Culture 2000 ' the programme of the citizen . 
The increased participation of our citizens is something I hope and pray for . 
I would like this participation to be as extensive and productive as possible and I undertake to work to ensure that in the course of the five years covered by the programme it becomes a tangible reality . 
I know that you , as Members of Parliament , in your own regions and countries , are all going to work together with the programme participants so that all these small flowers , as one Member of Parliament said , go to make a vast multicoloured carpet . 
I should like this programme to become a practical reality and for culture to be not only a factor of enrichment for our citizens , both in personal as well as in social and economic terms , but a right which it is our job to assert , and also the hallmark of rediscovered interaction within the Union . 
This is what our European ' Culture 2000 ' programme offers . 
It does not compete with the cultural policies implemented in the various Member States . Such policies are necessary , and I would like to see them developed further . 
It simply adds to them , complements them , building a bridge between the various cultures of our various countries . 
I feel therefore that extending and enriching European citizens ' participation in culture is a crucial task , one which justifies the efforts we make to achieve it , and this is the yardstick against which we must measure the success of our programme and of our Union . 
A number of Members of Parliament have quite rightly raised this point . If the Union is purely an economic union , then it is a stillborn project . 
However , if it is a union of culture , civilisation and participation , then it becomes a living thing . 
This is the foundation , ladies and gentlemen , which I intend to develop , and I shall take the following five areas into special consideration : firstly , providing creative people with opportunities of an innovative nature to allow their talent to find the support it deserves in our programme . 
Secondly , encouraging exchanges , mobility and training in the cultural sector . 
Thirdly , promoting cooperation between cultural operators . 
Fourthly , increasing audiences for culture , with particular emphasis on attracting young people to culture and , fifthly , protecting the common cultural heritage on the European scale as well as the history of the peoples of Europe , and making them better known . 
The new programme will , I am sure , in terms of its structure and organisation based on transparency , efficiency and balance , prove to be an instrument as successful as it is essential to our measures . 
Madam President , I reiterate my thanks to Parliament for its support and for , once again , having shown the importance it attaches to culture in the context of the Union . 
I am certain that it will not be disappointed , having given us its support , and I personally undertake to keep Parliament informed , as things progress , of the various phases of the implementation of our measures and the measures of our citizens , which I hope will be great measures for the future of the Union . 
Thank you , Commissioner . I think we can also thank the rapporteur once again . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place at 11 a . m . tomorrow . 
 ( The sitting was closed at 9 . 55 p . m . ) 
End - of - life vehicles
The next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading ( A5 - 0006 / 2000 ) , on behalf of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection , on the common position established by the Council with a view to the adoption of the European Parliament and Council Directive on end - of - life vehicles [ 8095 / 1 / 1999 - C5 - 0180 / 1999 - 1997 / 0194 ( COD ) ]  ( Rapporteur : Mr Florenz ) 
Mr President , nine million cars are shredded and scrapped every year in Europe . 
Even though they can no longer be driven , these nine million cars may still be traded and moved across borders ; and not just intra - Community borders , but also those outside the Union . 
It is therefore only right that the European Union should draw up Community rules on how these nine million vehicles every year are to be recycled and processed . 
We believe that the directive has a few weaknesses that we in the House should work on to produce a directive which is genuinely ground - breaking . 
We therefore have a number of amendments . 
I personally believe that the scope of the directive goes beyond its objective . 
I do not think it is necessary for classic cars to be part of the directive . 
Nor do I think that motorcycles should be included , as the distinctive culture of recycling within the motorcycle industry obviates the need for a European directive in this area . 
I am not looking for such rigidly high recycling quotas when it comes to special - purpose vehicles either . 
I want special - purpose vehicles such as ambulances to have high recovery quotas . 
This is my main concern in this matter . 
In my opinion , the directive solidly regulates the matter of accountability for how a car is disposed of in Europe . 
This can be left as the Commission has proposed with the Member States ensuring the appropriate collection points for draining cars . 
This will involve , for example , disposing of more than 32 million lots of used oil , removing break fluid , etc . 
An important part of this directive is the issue of what to do with used parts . 
What should we do with the shredded products ? 
We should not overlook the fact that , although quotas are an important point in recycling and recovery , they are by no means the only point . 
Do not forget that , in the case of cars , 80 % of environmental impact comes through driving , 1 % through recovery and 19 % through construction . 
Quotas are not , therefore , the only parameter in the matter of environmental compatibility , just one of many . 
Of course we need to aim high , but quotas must not become an end in themselves . 
We must understand that the bigger picture is important when it comes to the environmental impact of cars . 
I am far keener to see us move away from today ' s car , weighing 1 , 400 kg and driving an average of 200 , 000 km , to a future car capable of driving the same distance but weighing just 1 , 000 kg . 
This would at least mean 400 kg times 200 , 000 km less transportation . 
This would represent real environmental progress because it would lead to a large reduction in CO2 which , if I have rightly understood the Kyoto Protocol , is the important factor . 
We therefore consider that , in future , vehicles which clearly and effectively use lightweight construction methods will produce less CO2 and should receive preferential treatment in their combustion quotas . 
It should not be for each Member State , but for you and your staff , Commissioner , to decide whether these lightweight construction vehicles ( and there is also talk of 3 - litre vehicles ) should receive preferential treatment . 
We think they should . 
May I say something about costs . 
Some say that all the costs should be borne by the manufacturers ; that this is only right and in the very best interests of the consumer . 
However , this can be seriously questioned as the manufacturers will pass on all the costs to consumers and acquire for themselves a state - sanctioned monopoly on recycling . 
I can only warn you against consenting to this . 
There are amendments which propose splitting the costs fifty - fifty between the manufacturer and the buyer of a new car . 
The money from this pool , system , or however you want to picture it , would mean that from 2006 all vehicles in circulation could be taken in without cost to the last holder . 
This too is a particular desire of my group . 
Our proposal to split the costs has a crucial advantage , namely that we won ' t be an immediate candidate for the Court of Justice when the directive is adopted . 
The car industry is concerned about and half expecting repercussions , which is a serious problem which we must address accordingly . 
This is why I propose splitting the costs between the first holder and the manufacturer . 
As for a ban on certain materials : of course we need one ! 
A car has dangerous components which we must ban long - term . 
This means that we need a pressure instrument . 
The Commission has put forward various proposals which are too stringent and we have come up with some alternatives . 
There are a number of sound amendments . 
This Parliament has been given more authority , so let us use it ! 
Let us have the courage to put together a ground - breaking directive . 
A directive which we put together just for the sake of it would not be worthy of this House . 
I ask for your support . 
Mr President , I almost feel like saying ,  " Phew "  , now that we have at last come to the second reading on this directive which has given us so much work , and which has clearly also given a great deal of work to the rapporteur , Mr Florenz . 
I do not consider this directive to be at all satisfactory since it does not answer the real question over what is going to be done with vehicles which have already been abandoned and which , today , can only be removed at local authority expense , i . e . the taxpayers ' expense . 
The principle of ' polluter pays ' is not being applied . 
Vehicles already abandoned have also been abandoned by Community legislation , in that they are not taken into consideration either in the texts on emissions or in this text on end - of - life vehicles . 
The only merit of this directive is that it looks to the future . 
It has not , however , been possible to solve the problem of vehicles currently being used but which are already old and which cost far more to recycle . 
On the other hand , we can be fairly confident for the future because we know the efforts that car manufacturers are prepared to make in order to find ( a ) materials that are easier to recycle and ( b ) to set up recycling industries . 
I should also like to stress the need to maintain a flexible approach to recycling , reuse and incineration , as far as the new particularly light materials are concerned which make it possible to reduce vehicle consumption and therefore emissions . 
This is a problem of compatibility between our directives on end - of - life vehicles and the former directives , including the one on auto - oil , which we voted on a few years ago . 
We must therefore congratulate the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection , on having the wisdom , in order to make things perfectly clear , to reintroduce the clause making an exception of the vintage cars which are part of our industrial and cultural heritage . 
In conclusion , let me say that this directive is not ambitious enough to solve the problems of present car numbers and it is rather hypocritical with regard to the fate reserved for the wrecks which still clutter our forests , lakes and gardens . 
Once again , the principle of ' polluter pays ' is not being applied . The taxpayer is still footing the bill . 
Mr President , Commissioner , reading the leaflets which have been distributed in recent weeks , one would think that we were talking about the ultimate environmental catastrophe or the death of the car industry in Europe . 
Neither is correct . 
We simply must realise that the directive on the table is a sound directive . 
It means ecological progress for Europe , and we can be proud of ourselves if we succeed in enacting it and setting it in motion . 
All the same , there is one point on which we are in conflict . 
In the grand scheme of the directive , it is perhaps a minor point , but nevertheless a disputed one . 
It concerns the issue of recycling costs . 
Here we find ourselves fundamentally at odds with last year ' s debate in the Council when freedom from costs for the last owner and the issue of financing were lumped together and a question mark placed over whether the last owner should really be free from costs . 
Last February in this House we unambiguously decided ( and we Social Democrats are sticking to this ) that the matter of freedom from costs for the last owner is not open to question ! 
So who will pay for the vehicles which are to be disposed of ? 
For us this is straightforward : in the case of new vehicles it should be the manufacturer since this will also compel manufacturers to design and build recyclable cars . 
And what about vehicles which are already on the road ? 
Let us look at an example . Rover in Great Britain , if they were responsible for all end - of - life cars , would actually be responsible for 5 . 8 million cars within the European Union and would immediately have to set aside EUR 250 million against recycling costs , whereas a manufacturer from Korea building similar cars would only have to shell out peanuts , as a representative of Deutsche Bank put it . 
Such distortions in competition are not about environmental protection ; they simply affect investment potential and the jobs of those building cars in Europe . 
Consequently , for end - of - life vehicles we propose setting up a fund to cover the costs of recycling end - of - life vehicles in order to safeguard the principle of freedom from costs . 
I can understand it when colleagues from countries which do not build cars advocate that manufacturers should pay the full whack and that they are not interested in the problem of distortions in competition when it comes to setting aside funds . 
However , I would ask these colleagues to show solidarity with the more than 2 million people who make a living from building cars in Europe , so that these jobs can be secured in the future . 
I am in favour of stringent environmental requirements , as you know from the auto - oil programme and the debate on exhaust emissions , but I believe that they should be the same for everyone ! 
Mr President , Commissioner , I think we need this directive . 
Firstly , because it clearly stipulates the environmental objectives . 
Secondly , because it can promote recycling , which is important . 
Thirdly , because it sets out a clear procedure to combat pollution caused by heavy metals . 
This is also an important point . 
The directive affords a European framework , also to Member States who already have systems in place and who wish to continue to use these . 
So , first of all , we need to keep the recycling percentages at their present level . This will , of course , provide the necessary incentive for technological innovation and for identifying ways of dealing with materials that we do not as yet know how to dispose of . 
Secondly , we need to retain the details as they are included in the common position . 
As from 2006 , therefore , all vehicles should be handed in at no cost to their last owners . 
Needless to say , this is most definitely an essential point which should not be changed in any way . 
Is this too much of a burden ? There is , however , one thing we should not overlook . 
The directive applies to complete cars , that is to say cars with none of the essential components missing . According to the experts , few of these complete cars are of no value . 
After all , recycling and the re - use of components form part of a sector which is not necessarily loss - making . 
Quite the reverse , in fact . At present , there is a whole raft of companies which make a living out of them , and a decent one at that . 
This directive encourages the whole of this sector . It is a sector which comprises small and medium - sized businesses . 
Since , in this case , transport costs are high , a system will have to be introduced which will need to be very much decentralised , because transporting an end - of - life vehicle over a distance of more than 100 km is not a profitable activity . 
I think it is a good thing that this directive does not need to apply to historic vehicles , and I think we ought to add this provision to it . 
I think , therefore , that vintage cars ought to be exempt . 
Also , it is a good thing that we should clearly lay the burden of responsibility with the manufacturer . That is a basic principle which we must uphold . 
As manufacturers are responsible for the design , they can give a great deal of consideration to the environment at the conception phase . 
We must also insist that the cost is borne wholly or largely by the manufacturer , as stipulated in the common position . 
I find this a well - balanced formula which does not preclude a number of other things . 
I think we need to retain it . 
This is why our group will remain as close to the common position as possible and will not alter its essence . 
After all , we are all aware how difficult it was within the Council to bring this common position about , and that it was a very difficult balancing act to reach this common position . 
In my opinion , we should not jeopardise that common position , because it is a directive which we desperately need for environmental reasons . 
I would ask you to support this common position . 
Our group will , at any rate , do this as far as possible - for environmental reasons and because we have this directive which is well - balanced and encompasses a whole range of issues and difficulties including , for example , the way in which the costs are to be distributed . 
Mr President , we need to take an important decision today . 
Does this European Parliament support the ecological principle of manufacturer ' s liability , that is to say that cars , once they have reached the end of their lives , are the responsibility of the car manufacturer ? 
No , according to the Christian Democrats in Amendment No . 38 : car manufacturers and car drivers should split the cost 50 / 50 . 
It is evident from the packaging directive in which this 50 / 50 compromise is included that this does not work . 
Packaging still accounts for a mountain of rubbish in Europe and is a burden upon the environment . 
Some of the socialists under the direction of Mr Bernd Lange say : yes , we approve of this principle but we need not implement it until 2010 or 2012 according to Amendment No 45 . 
The common position stipulates 2006 . According to the group of the Greens , this gives the car industry ample time to make the necessary preparations . 
I would therefore urge my colleagues not to support Amendment No 38 of the Christian Democrats and Amendment No 45 of some of the socialists . 
If car manufacturers need to bear the cost of recycling their cars , they will design these cars in such a way that they can be re - used more easily and more cheaply . 
The problem of plastic and PVC will then no longer exist in cars and these products will be replaced by plant - based bioplastic . This is ultimately cheaper , also for the consumer . 
For twenty years , the majority within Parliament has attempted to make European environmental policy greener . 
Today , this green position is being threatened under pressure from , in particular , the German and French car industries . 
That is why I urge you to vote against Amendments Nos 38 and 45 . 
We , the Green Group , by and large support the common position . 
Mr President , the waste from end - of - life vehicles is one of our really major environmental problems in terms both of the quantity of waste and of emissions of environmentally hazardous substances . 
We in the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left therefore want as comprehensive and consistent a set of regulations as is humanly possible in this area . 
With this directive , we have the chance to take a big step forward , but this presupposes that the Council ' s position is not torn to shreds and weakened in Parliament ' s reading of it . 
If they were adopted , many of the amendments which have been tabled would considerably weaken the directive . 
This applies , above all , to amendments from the Group of the European People ' s Party but also , unfortunately , to some of the amendments from Mr Lange , as I see it . 
It is easy to see that the car industry in certain countries , for example in Germany , went in for some pretty tough lobbying before the present directive was adopted . 
For ourselves , it is crucial that the following principles should apply . 
The polluter should pay . 
This means that it is the manufacturer which should take full responsibility , financial as well as otherwise , for recycling vehicles . 
There must be rules governing existing vehicles too . 
Where this aspect is concerned , we cannot accept any weakening of the Council ' s position regarding the date from which the regulations are to come into force . 
There should be no falling - off in the percentages concerned or in the requirements for recycling vehicles from particular years , and it is important to limit the use of dangerous substances such as lead . 
We shall vote against any amendments which run counter to these considerations . 
If those amendments were adopted which would considerably weaken the directive , this would be very detrimental , not only from an environmental point of view but also for the European Parliament ' s credibility on environmental issues . 
Reference was made earlier on in the debate to the fact that some thought should be given to the millions of people who work in the car industry in various countries and to those countries which have large car industries , for example my own country , Sweden . 
I was myself a car worker before I was elected . I believe I am one of the few members of this Parliament to have stood beside a production line and assembled cars . 
I think that very tough demands should be made of the car industry . These would , of course , be to the advantage of modern , progressive car manufacturers who think in environmentally friendly terms . 
It is precisely this type of car industry which we should be encouraging in the European Union . 
Mr President , I am very pleased that environmental protection is now a priority for this Parliament , as indeed it is for the citizens of Europe . 
There is no doubt that abandoned cars represent a serious threat to the visual and physical environment . 
Our citizens expect us in this regard to protect their interests . 
Each year , there are between 8 and 9 million vehicles scrapped within the European Union . 
This in itself generates a large amount of waste . 
Car manufacturers , the suppliers of materials and equipment manufacturers must make an effort to limit the use of hazardous substances and therefore must ensure at the design stage that recycled materials can be used in the manufacture of cars . 
We know that in the Netherlands there are authorised treatment centres in place to collect end - of - life vehicles and this process should be extended across the length and breadth of the European Union . 
From an Irish perspective , I know that the Irish Department of the Environment is already having consultations with motor industry representatives to ensure that appropriate collection centres are put in place in Ireland in the near future to deal with end - of - life vehicles . 
I see no reason why licensing arrangements cannot be organised across Europe for collection centres to scrap the 8 to 9 million vehicles which are disposed of within the European Union on an annual basis . 
Car manufacturers will have to provide information on the rate of re - use , recycling and recovery of used cars which will be achieved in the coming years . 
In accordance with new provisions included in the Amsterdam Treaty all the 370 million consumers within the European Union have a right to consumer - related information . 
I believe EU consumers will support those car manufacturers that incorporate the most environmentally - friendly practices in the coming year . 
My final point is that the regulations and the legislation must take into account the special position of the vintage car sector throughout the European Community because of its role in relation to the social sector and its environmental and economic considerations . 
Mr President , the directive on end - of - life vehicles is certainly a milestone in the improvement of the environment in Europe . 
I also think that a great effort has been made to arrive at intelligent recycling of materials , a reduction of polluting waste and the promotion of technological innovation . 
In this regard , we are certainly on the right track , but as some Members have already stressed , the real issue here is the possibility that manufacturers ' responsibility will become a shared responsibility . 
I would like to say that in Italy , considerable headway has been made in this sector ; we are perhaps the first in Europe to have regulations encouraging us to take end - of - life vehicles off the market , but in our country the average age of cars on the road is rather high , and we therefore have serious concerns over the problems that this directive could entail for the market . 
We need to conduct a serious analysis of the matter . 
In Italy , we have begun to withdraw and recycle around 80 % of old cars , but there is a market problem which could trigger a crisis - in terms of unemployment given that in Italy industry often resorts to lay - offs and redundancies - and cause problems for workers in different parts of Italy . 
We must therefore try to reconcile the two requirements - Parliament is sometimes a little extremist , adopting positions that are either extremely pro - green or extremely anti - green - and , all things considered , find a way to combine the effort made by Mr Florenz and that of other Members , who are trying to reconcile the two positions as best as possible . 
These worthwhile amendments are the outcome of this ; I think that we will be able to arrive at a solution to the problem , that is , to reconcile environmental requirements with market and labour requirements . 
Mr President , this directive deals with the comparatively small but growing problem of abandoned cars and the question of a more structured disposal of all cars at the end of their life . 
To that extent , it might be thought desirable , even if it is not a matter of urgent necessity . 
The key questions now are who pays the EUR 262 per car for the 9 million cars that are disposed of each year ? 
Who pays for the collection , the dismantling , the disposal and so on ? 
And should the directive be retrospective to cover every car that has ever been made ? 
The proposal from the Council , the common position , is that manufacturers should pay the lot . 
That would mean billions of pounds or euros for each of the major companies in each of the countries of the European Union . 
That cost would inevitably be passed on to the price and hence to the buyers of new cars . 
Because European car manufactures have been operating here for many , many more decades than companies from Japan , Korea and elsewhere , that would be a much greater burden on the older European companies and a competitive gift to their competitors from elsewhere . 
I commend Mr Florenz , Mr Lange and others who have sought from both sides of the party divide a compromise based on shared costs . 
I also commend to you the amendment standing in my name and colleagues from Germany , Italy , Ireland , Spain , Sweden and Britain , to remove the retrospective nature of this measure . 
Retrospective law is bad law , it is unfair law and often it is unworkable law . 
Most democratic parliaments in the free world reject it on principle unless there is overwhelming public interest , which clearly there is not in this case . 
That is why I have called for a roll - call vote on this . 
We can see who is prepared to vote for a retrospection which is of doubtful legality , which would be a costly burden to every future car buyer and a devastating blow for the European car industry . 
