 -  ( SV ) In order to be able to influence developments , the European Parliament must adopt a more constructive attitude towards the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference than emerges from the present resolution , which displays far too much disappointment and negativity about the decision which the European Council made in Helsinki in December 1999 . 
The European Parliament and its Committee on Constitutional Affairs ought instead to have been more specific and concentrated on just a few points in addition to the Council decision in Helsinki , so stating what it considered to be the most pressing matters for discussion , including the question of establishing a public prosecutor to deal with crimes against the institutions of the European Union and their financial interests . 
We Swedish Christian Democrats also oppose any threats which have been made to delay the enlargement of the EU to the east if the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference is not extended very considerably to include subjects in addition to those left over from the Intergovernmental Conference in Amsterdam in 1997 . 
The most important task of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference is to reform the EU before the accession of the new Member States . 
I therefore , of course , support the European Parliament ' s now giving the formal go - ahead to the Intergovernmental Conference . 
I nonetheless consider that the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference should be limited to questions which have to be resolved if it is to be possible for the enlargement to take place . 
I also refer to my explanation of vote of 18 November 1999 which clarifies my attitude towards supranationalism and common defence . 
Joint resolution on Austria
Madam President , the Union for a Europe of Nations Group did not associate itself with the joint PPE / DE - PSE resolution on the political situation in Austria following the formation in that country of a coalition government between the conservatives and Jörg Haider ' s Freedom Party . 
This PPE / DE - PSE resolution commends the initiative taken by fourteen Member States to apply pressure to Austria by organising a sort of diplomatic boycott . 
What we find most shocking is the fact that this joint intervention claims the authority of the Treaty , as if this stated somewhere that henceforth the free and democratic expression of a people could be cancelled by the will of the heads of government of neighbouring countries who in fact , in this instance , have carefully refrained from consulting their own peoples . 
Whatever Jörg Haider ' s verbal excesses , which we of course deplore , the Austrians have made a democratic choice , and we must respect this . 
In our opinion , it is clear that the left wing in the European Parliament , in association with the Austrian left wing which was defeated in the electoral arena , have mounted a petty political campaign resorting to the memory of a sinister but fortunately bygone period . 
Although comparing Haider to Hitler is a concept without any credibility whatsoever , it has nonetheless partly achieved its purpose in unsettling some PPE / DE Members of Parliament . 
But , going beyond this petty political operation , what the majority in the European Parliament is afraid of most of all is that the threat to the left - right cohabitation in Austria , which caused political life to stagnate and rot , may soon spread to the European system of co - management which is producing equally appalling results . 
In order to prevent this threat to the system , it is ready to do anything , including overruling the outcome of free elections , including setting up a thought police , including establishing a new form of totalitarianism . 
Madam President , on behalf of the Members of Parliament who represent the Front national , the Vlaams Blok and the Movimento sociale italiano , I should like to ask the question : in this outrageous interference in internal Austrian affairs which the European Union has undertaken in contravention of general international law , in contravention of the Treaties , in contravention of morality , who is pulling the strings ? 
Is this hysteria spontaneous ? 
Is it the product of mere foolishness or , more probably , of a deliberate strategy , which is the same throughout the world ? 
Who is imposing their will on the nations of Europe , daring to stop them choosing their own fate ? 
Underground networks ? 
The government of the United States , or of Israel ? 
Or their Socialist back - up troops who , in this House , have the cheek to thrust their values down our throats ? 
What , then , are the values of these Socialists who feathered their electoral nest in the last century by painting the idea of greater social justice in glowing colours for the benefit of the underprivileged , and who today are nothing more than the party of protected civil servants , full - time union officials and state capitalism ? 
What are the values of the Belgian Socialist Party , which only goes from paedophilia scandals to corruption scandals , via Vandam and Agusta ? 
What are the values of the French Socialist Party , which extorted money from all the town councils under its thumb in the Urba , Sages and Graco scandals ? 
The party led by François Mitterrand , decorated with the emblem of Marshal Pétain ' s Vichy government , the party whose leading lights have just been caught red - handed once again , living a life of luxury on the public funds embezzled from the students ' mutual insurance company . 
I shall not even mention the instances of corruption in the Italian Socialist Party , because it does not do to kick a man when he is down , still less when he is dead and gone . 
I shall , however , mention the Spanish Socialist Party which has just formed an alliance with the butchers of Albacete and which settled its accounts with Basque nationalists by hiring contract killers . 
I shall also mention the German Socialist Party which dares to preach to us about the second world war , when it is international socialist in the way that its peers were National Socialists , still goose - stepping , the party of the Waffen SS . . . 
 ( The President cut the speaker off ) 
Madam President , I had a major problem with this resolution . Finally , I abstained on the vote for a number of reasons . 
I was in sympathy with the EDD Group amendment , talking about rejecting the interference of the EU in the formation of governments of Members States but I had to abstain because it just followed on the condemnation of xenophobia , racism , etc . and I felt that it might be misinterpreted . 
However , I do wonder about the wisdom of this . 
Firstly , there is the question of trying to combat intolerance with intolerance and the long - term consequences of that . 
I also wonder about the wisdom of the EU and its reaction to the formation of the government in Austria and how that is going to affect public opinion there . 
At the moment it seems that the Haider Party is getting more support rather than less from the opposition by outside governments . 
Even America has now said that it is considering breaking off diplomatic relations . 
We wonder if this is actually feeding the flames of xenophobia and the parties and people that support it . 
I really think that people should be extremely cautious . 
If you want to combat xenophobia and racism , and I believe that we should , we need to look at the root causes . 
We need to look at the people who vote for these parties , and understand why this situation arises . 
It is not a situation that most people in this Parliament want , but we need to be careful about the approach we take , so that we do not in the end up with the opposite of what we are trying to achieve . 
Madam President , I strongly refute any statement , demonstration or feeling of xenophobia or racism . 
I passionately defend Europe ' s heritage of human rights and the rule of law . 
I disagree , however , for this very reason , with the senseless actions taken by the Presidency - the Portuguese Presidency unfortunately - which have resulted in a real institutional blunder on behalf of the other fourteen States . 
This is not the way to fight extremism . 
It may even be a way of doing extremism a great deal of good . 
The torrent of confusion and rash actions that has been unleashed over Austria has blown things out of all proportion . It has caused considerable distress to decent citizens and evokes risks that had previously not even been considered . 
There is an irreconcilable contradiction between positions adopted in the name of human rights and the rule of law , but which at the same time attack the fundamental rights of the Austrians and ride roughshod over the basic tenets of the rule of law , in this case the standards laid down in the Treaties . 
What are we actually seeking to achieve in embarking on an Intergovernmental Conference ? 
A Europe of 27 States or a Europe of 14 , or even fewer ? 
We support Europe , a Europe which does honour to all the actions that have brought us to this point , a Europe which respects the Treaties and the law and a Europe which needs Austria . 
This needs to be said ! 
Madam President , I am delighted and proud that this Parliament has , by an enormous majority , condemned the formation of the coalition in Austria incorporating Mr Haider ' s Freedom Party . 
Mr Haider has demonstrated , over the past years by both words and deeds , that he deserves to be excluded from normal democratic discourse . 
Not only has he admired Adolf Hitler , praised the Waffen SS , and refused to condemn a terrorist bombing that killed four Roma , but also in Carinthia has been a member of the regional government . 
He has led efforts to end provision for Austria ' s Slovene - speaking minority and assistance to immigrants . 
Some have said it is not right for us to interfere in Austrian politics . 
They are wrong . 
European Union Treaties make it incumbent on us to protect fundamental rights . 
Some have said we have to accept the results of democratic elections . 
However , democratic elections do not make democrats of those who have threatened democracy . 
There is the tragic monument of the Holocaust , the death of 6 million Jews , to those who argued the same case with respect to Germany in the 1930s . 
However , we should not condemn Mr Haider for ambition . 
Leopards do not change their spots . 
The real culprits are Austria ' s Christian Democrat acting as Judas goats to resurrect a threat to Europe that we thought had died Berlin in 1945 . 
Madam President , we have just passed a resolution which condemns the racist and xenophobic record of Jörg Haider ' s Freedom Party in Austria , which has welcomed action by our governments to cut off political relations with any government of which he is part , and which sends our support to anti - racist groups within the democratic majority of the Austrian people . 
We warn that this coalition , if it is formed today , unacceptably legitimises the extreme right , directly in contradiction with the principles of peace and reconciliation , which bring us together in this European Union . 
These are the values which we ask of others who seek to join us . 
This European Parliament requires the European Commission to be vigilant of any racist action in Austria , and threatens to suspend Austria from membership of the European Union if this happens . 
I am proud to support such a resolution . 
Though our proposal to withdraw political invitations to any Austrian government representative to this European Parliament has not carried today , I give notice that we will further this proposal to ensure that any action within the powers of this European Parliament to combat the return of neo - Nazis to government in Europe can and will be taken . 
I shall take the floor very briefly , Madam President . 
I respect Parliament ' s wish , as it has been expressed , but I must also say that the self - determination of peoples cannot be called into question , even by the European Parliament . 
The document is unfair both to Austrian Members of the European Parliament , and to members of the Austrian national parliament , and it smacks slightly of jealousy and political interests , but also of business . 
I do not believe that these signals will change the citizens ' indifference to Europe . 
The Austrian extreme right has been gifted an unwarranted present . 
I very much welcome the position taken by the Italian Radicals ; and I say this while making a clear historic and material distinction between Italian liberals and Austrian liberals . 
I have for many years , in word and deed , been committed to the anti - fascist struggle and the struggles for equal rights and against xenophobia . 
However , recent events - firstly , what were really threats by the Council of Ministers , then Mr Prodi ' s threats against the Austrian Commissioner and , finally , the present decision - are things I cannot support . 
I have not been able to vote in favour of the present decision even though I agree with many of its premises . 
What we have here , first and foremost , is an incredibly ominous mixture of power , arrogance and impotence on the part of the European Union . 
Not only do these decisions conflict with the Treaty and apportion to the institutions of the Union more power than that to which they are entitled but , worst of all , their effect will be counter - productive . 
They will not weaken Mr Haider and the FPÖ . On the contrary , they will strengthen them . 
We shall obtain the very opposite of what we want . 
That is not how you combat racism and a swing to the right . 
 . 
 ( DA ) The Left ' s Members of the European Parliament attach importance to the fact that , with today ' s decision , Parliament has NOT supported the fourteen prime ministers ' diplomatic sanctions against Austria . 
The Left ' s Members of Parliament therefore supported the Liberal decision ' s powerful rejection of any form of xenophobia in Austria or elsewhere . 
We attach crucial importance to applying , if necessary , the new provisions under Article 7 of the Amsterdam Treaty so that a country which , by its actions , infringes fundamental citizens ' rights by means of discrimination and such like will have its voting rights in the EU ' s Council of Ministers removed . 
 -  ( EL ) The Freedom Party ' s participation in the Austrian Government is a dangerous development for the European Union ' s political future . 
It is a ' Trojan horse ' which is unfortunately reappearing in Europe larger than ever since the Second World War . 
The European Parliament and the Union ' s governments must politically isolate a government that includes admirers of Nazism and advocates of xenophobia . 
The European Union bears a large measure of responsibility - and along with it the two dominant political movements , the Social Democrats and the Christian Democrats - because , by their dogmatic adherence to the harsh financial policies of EMU , their dislocation of the welfare state and their deification of uncontrolled competition , they have pushed broad strata of society to the limits and made it possible for right - wing extremists of the Haider type to recruit support for their neo - Nazi ways . 
In view of the fact that the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament do not permit us to table our own resolution condemning Haider ' s party , as well as all the parties throughout Europe which disseminate racist slander and which are xenophobic and hostile to immigrant workers , we voted in favour of the compromise resolution . 
We did so even though we did not agree with some of its recitals or terms , in order to show our solidarity with all those in Austria itself who are opposing the Austrian extreme right and its demagoguery . 
Our vote in no way constitutes an endorsement of the signatories to this compromise resolution , their present policy or their future attitude should the threat of the extreme right become more serious . 
Some of these parties , despite declaring themselves to be republican and democratic , adopt the demagoguery of the extreme right , either out of connivance or as a vote - winning ploy , if only in openly and hypocritically blaming the immigrant workers in our countries for unemployment , and generally making their lives more difficult . 
More generally , those signatories who take part in or have taken part in government in the various States of the European Union must take their share of responsibility in the influence which the extreme right has managed to gain since their policy , devoted exclusively to the interests of big business , has not included taking action likely to eradicate unemployment and the poverty it engenders , and has thus facilitated the xenophobic demagoguery of the extreme right . 
This week we heard the first political cry of the new - born Europe . 
By staunchly and speedily denouncing the participation of Jörg Haider ' s xenophobic and anti - European party in the Austrian government , a situation without precedent since the second world war , the European Union has come into its political birthright and has confirmed that it is not merely an economic and financial Community , a large market , a " Europe of shopkeepers "  . 
It is a part of its future which is at stake right now , part of its very essence , its heart and soul . 
The European Parliament was the first to speak up . 
The appeal by the European Socialists , on the initiative of Olivier Duhamel , raised awareness and enabled there to be a firm and immediate political response to this unheard of and intolerable situation . A firm attitude which the 14 European States have demonstrated unanimously and promptly , through Mr Guterres , by condemning the risk of the Austrian political situation getting out of control . 
This courageous stance turns a new page in the construction of Europe . 
A return to the roots , at last , for a Community built on the basis of the determination to turn our backs on a past history marred by hatred and exclusion and of adherence to the humanist values of openness and tolerance . 
Europe has managed to stand up to condemn unacceptable events . 
However , as it lacks the legal instruments to support this political will , since the sanctions stipulated under Article 7 of the Treaties are virtually impossible to apply , will it be able to keep its head high in the face of the threat of the systematic blocking of its entire institutional structure ? 
The whole credibility of Europe is at stake today , before we invite the recent and still vulnerable democracies of the former eastern bloc to join us tomorrow . 
From now on Europe must put its words into action if it wishes to show the world the scope of its rediscovered ambition . 
At this time when we are voting on a joint resolution against the inclusion of neo - Nazis in the government of a European Union Member State , I must express my regrets regarding a compromise text which is particularly lacking in backbone . 
I am voting in favour of it because it is inconceivable that the European Parliament , after its excellent political debate yesterday , should not adopt a stance on this matter . 
Personally , however , I shall continue to fight against the extreme right , to urge people to sign a petition to demand measures which may go as far as the exclusion of Austria , and to organise a major public demonstration in Lille on Saturday at 3 p . m . 
Fascism and neo - Nazism are cancers ! 
The foul monster has been reawakened ! 
For me there is no question of allowing them to develop and to flourish without fighting with all our might . 
Europe was born out of a desire for peace , freedom and tolerance . 
There is no question of it allowing xenophobic , racist and anti - Semitic ministers to be tolerated at within it . 
Do not count on me to keep quiet , without doing or saying anything . 
In yesterday ' s debate in the European Parliament some Members of this Parliament expressed worry that we were interfering in the internal affairs of a Member State . 
Such a concern is misplaced . 
The European Parliament has never been slow to comment on developments in Member States with which they disagree . 
We have condemned Basque and Irish terrorism . 
We have opposed racism and the infringement of the rights of minorities . 
It is our responsibility as a parliament , particularly as the democratically elected voice of the European Union , to comment on current political developments in Austria which are in conflict with the policies of this parliament . 
By commenting and making our views known we are not preventing any party in Austria from forming a coalition government . 
We are nonetheless , as is our right as well as our responsibility , telling them that if they go ahead then there are consequences arising from such a decision and in fact we are warning them beforehand . 
Others would argue that we should suspend judgement until we see the detail of such an agreement . 
Such a view is not only a political cop - out , it is positively dangerous . 
In reaching an agreement with Jörg Haider and his party , the Austrian Christian Democrats would at a stroke be confirming political respectability on right wing extremism and also giving them access to power - both of which they will utilise as a launching pad for even greater electoral success . 
That is why the European Union must make its position clear regarding the current situation in Austria . 
