 -  ( SV ) We have voted in favour of the common resolution in order to express our solidarity with all those who are exposed to xenophobia and racism . We have also voted in favour of the resolution in protest against the detestable politics that Jörg Haider stands for . 
We are nonetheless very critical of the methods which the 14 Member States have employed on this issue . 
The resolution makes no clear reference to respect for the Member States ' national identities and constitutional traditions in accordance with Article 6 of the Treaty . 
What is also missing is a paragraph concerning the EU ' s shared responsibility for the social and political developments in Europe and Austria which have been among the prior conditions for Mr Haider ' s electoral success . 
Today , as previously in the history of Europe , right - wing extremism is the result of insecure social and economic conditions of life . 
The policy of cut - backs which has followed in the wake of adjusting to EMU has promoted the successes of right - wing extremism . 
A radical policy to promote security and justice in each country is the best guarantee of democratic development in Europe . 
 -  ( DE ) I am making this statement on behalf of the CSU . 
It is intolerable that the EU should involve itself in the formation of the government in a Member State . 
It has no right to do so . 
Instead of prematurely condemning the FPÖ and the Austrian Government which is being formed , there should first be a critical examination and assessment of the governmental declaration and the party programme and policies of the coalition . 
Only after such critical appraisal of the future policies of the parties involved in the coalition discussions can a decision be made as to whether this government is contrary to the democratic spirit of Europe . 
This does not mean that we sympathise with Haider . 
The CSU European delegates have no sympathy whatsoever with the leader of the FPÖ . 
However , as politicians we must ask the question why 27 % of the Austrian population voted for a party such as the FPÖ at the elections in October 1999 . 
We must concern ourselves with the reasons for this and try to deal with the reasons behind such results . 
Only by tackling the arguments and policies of the FPÖ can we prevent a radicalisation of Austrian politics . 
However , the resolution of the European Parliament does not question the reasons for the outcome of the Austrian vote and offers no options for resolving the problem . 
For these reasons the CSU European delegates are against this resolution . 
 " He knew what those jubilant crowds did not know but could have learned from books : that the plague bacillus never dies or disappears for good ; that it can lie dormant for years and years in furniture and linen - chests ; that it bides its time in bedrooms , cellars , trunks , and bookshelves ; and that perhaps the day would come when , for the bane and the enlightening of men , it would rouse up its rats again and send them forth to die in a happy city . " 
It is with these phrases that Albert Camus , at the close of the long allegorical novel describing the difficult fight of the citizens of the town of Oran against the plague , reminds us , at the close of the Second World War , that the fight against Nazism ,  " the brown plague " as it was termed at the time , could not enjoy a definitive victory . 
That because racial hatred , xenophobic violence , fear and rejection of what is different , have deep roots in all that is basest in humanity , they may re - emerge at any moment and take over any group of human beings . 
In this light , the events we are seeing in Austria must be seen as tragic . 
For the first time since the Second World War , a party which is openly pro - Nazi , racist and xenophobic has gained access to power in a European country . 
Confronted with this threat , which carries with it the negation of the very idea which lies at the heart of the construction of Europe , nothing must deter us : not the legal quibbling about what the treaty does or does not permit , not the legitimate questions about the right to intervene , not the derisory respect for formal democracy , and , above all , not the feeling of powerlessness which grips us in the face of an event which we reject with all the force of our convictions but which we are powerless to control . 
As the representative for a French overseas department , the island of Réunion , a land of racial and ethnic intermixing , where the population has been forged in the course of the last three centuries by the successive contributions of Europeans , blacks from Africa or Madagascar , enlisted men from India or Pakistan , or even Chinese , every day I experience the profound truth of the remark by Saint - Exupéry ,  " In being different to me , you are not doing me harm , brother , but enriching me ! " 
This human diversity is our main sources of wealth , and this is the reason why it is my duty to track down and to condemn anything which may be harmful to it , wherever it may exist . 
For all these reasons I voted most decidedly in favour of the resolution before this House on the formation of the government in Austria . 
Jörg Haider ' s rise to power , with the inauguration of a conservative right - wing and FPÖ coalition government , is a sign of the terrible revival in Europe of a monster to which liberalism has given birth . 
The success of the Austrian Freedom Party owes as much to the endorsement of respectability provided by the Austrian right wing and social democrats as to the policy of the latter , whose social disasters paved the way for extreme right - wing populism . 
The resolution stipulates possible diplomatic means to isolate the new government politically without even mentioning the root causes of the resurgence of Fascism . It can be explained by the feeling of helplessness of the people who are the victims of the ideology of mighty Mammon and by the choice of the ruling classes to promote strong government in order to take their policies of austerity and deregulation ever further . 
In order to oppose the xenophobic statements of an apprentice dictator who is nostalgic for the Third Reich , we must take every opportunity we can to express our solidarity with the Austrians opposed to Fascism . 
This is why we are voting in favour of this resolution in spite of its hypocritical references to a ' European democratic model ' which bears more resemblance to a fortress which tracks downs , expels and imprisons immigrants without the proper papers , when it is not opening files on teenagers . 
 -  ( DE ) I have just voted against the motion for a resolution on the situation in Austria in view of a possible government being formed between the ÖVP and the FPÖ . 
I consider the casting of Jörg Haider as " Europe ' s scapegoat "  ( or even worse , neo - Nazi and Super Racist ) to be counterproductive . 
Of course I , in no way , agree with the publicised statements of this right - wing populist and fully condemn xenophobia and any downplaying of the Hitler regime . 
However , I fear that a purely emotional reaction by Europe to the events in Austria will only multiply Haider ' s adherents . 
The EU must not do him an invaluable PR service . 
The strength of the FPÖ can be traced back to the weakness of the previous government and in this the Austrian socialists must bear the main responsibility . 
It was only after they unsuccessfully solicited the FPÖ to tolerate a minority government and , obviously in vain , offered the Freedom Party ministerial posts , that the SPÖ begin its massive campaign against Haider . 
It turned its threatened loss of power into an " heroic battle for the preservation of values " and an imminent , pure - and - simple " decision between democracy and non - democracy "  . 
This is a smear on the voters in my neighbouring country which I cannot condone . 
We German Christian Democrats used another strategy in the battle against extremists and clearly disassociated ourselves from them . 
We revealed the hollowness of the republicans who were nationalistic , xenophobic and anti - minority . 
Today the republicans are no longer represented in most local parliaments . 
The German approach is no guarantee that this radical movement will not grow again . 
It cannot be copied arbitrarily since each Member State has its own specific conditions . 
The ÖVP ( Austrian People ' s Party ) , whose presence at European level we have also come to take for granted , is daring to attempt a coalition for the sake of governability in Austria . 
It can only succeed if agreements are made which are solidly based on compliance with democratic principles . 
The Council has become prematurely involved without waiting for the results of the coalition negotiations or a programme of government . 
This condemnation is as unacceptable as the threatened breaking off of official contacts with the Austrian Republic . 
Sound democracy means being alert and not blind in one eye . 
We must take up a reasoned offensive against radicals on both the right and the left . 
I would have liked to see the same outrage in Europe when the socialists were prepared to make common cause with the successors to the misanthropic and persecutory regime in the DDR . 
In the meantime , they have been forming governments in German federal states . 
I fully support the statements made by Commissioner Prodi in today ' s session . 
He spoke of the task of not isolating Member States but of doing everything to unite them in common European values . 
 -  ( FR ) I voted against the joint resolution on the situation in Austria . 
Austria is a free , independent and sovereign country . 
Consequently , neither the Council , the Commission nor the European Parliament has the right to interfere in the internal administration of a Member State . 
The Austrian elections were held in a free , proper and democratic manner . 
Any interference by the European institutions in this country is therefore unacceptable ; it is in violation of the European Treaty ( Article 7 of the Treaty of Amsterdam ) . 
Nevertheless , these same institutions showed no reluctance to accept Turkey as a candidate for membership of the European Union , despite its well - known human rights violations . 
Nothing of this nature has yet occurred in Austria . 
This precedent , created on the initiative of the Portuguese Presidency , is a worrying one as far as the future of the European Union is concerned . 
On the one hand , the political excommunication of Austria only demonstrates the worrying influence of conformist thought . On the other hand , if tomorrow the governments of European Union Member States must first receive not the confidence of the nation but the endorsement of supranational bodies , then the very principle of democracy will be destroyed . 
In such circumstances will it even be worth having elections ? 
This is not the way to create the conditions for the nations of Europe to live together in harmony and to be able to cooperate to achieve a shared future . 
 -  ( FR ) The vote which has just taken place in this Chamber is a historic one for it is the first time we have ever debated the internal political situation of one of our Member States with such anxiety . 
I believe there are circumstances when the question of principles and institutional regulations is obliterated . 
I urge the Council and the Council Presidency to continue to protect the fundamental values of the Union . 
I urge the Commission to be less cautious . 
In this resolution , Parliament is assuming its responsibilities . 
Having said that , in my opinion , the resolution adopted today is the absolute minimum , the very least we could do . 
Personally I argued in favour of a rather harder line , and I supported Amendments Nos 1 , 4 , 6 , 7 and 8 , as well as the oral amendment tabled by the Socialist Group . 
In fact I consider it essential for the Council to accept only purely technical relations with the representatives of an Austrian Government which includes members of the Austrian Freedom Party . 
Including Jörg Haider ' s party in a coalition government makes the presence of the extreme right an everyday fact of life in Europe , and sets an extremely dangerous precedent which may generate a serious aftermath in other Union Member States or in candidate countries . 
The Austrian People ' s Party must accept some historical responsibility for this . 
It is our fundamental values which are at stake here . 
As the democratically elected representatives of the European people , we have no choice . 
We must reject what is unacceptable , as our constituents demand . 
Because , when the spectre of barbarism resurfaces , failure to oppose is tantamount to capitulation . 
I abstained in the vote on adopting the resolution . 
I condemn Jörg Haider ' s racist and xenophobic policy . 
However , I cannot accept that an EU body should intervene politically in the internal policy of one Member State . 
I cannot therefore accept paragraph 4 in the joint resolution , and I cannot vote in favour of the resolution , even though it would be a vote against the extreme right . 
 -  ( SV ) Obviously , the political leaders of Europe have a right and a duty to react against Mr Haider and his party . 
The political leaders of Europe are entitled to express their view of political developments in another Member State , just as a prime minister can express his opinion about racist politicians in a local authority . 
Finland ' s experience , however , is that integration , rather than isolation , is the better way of combating antidemocratic forces . 
I therefore voted against paragraph 2 of the resolution , which presupposes that all parties have respect for human rights . 
The EU Presidency ' s " common reaction " against the formation of the government in Austria is legally unjustified . The treaties do not authorise this reaction by the 14 Member States . 
Nor should we isolate the forces in Austria which wish to work for human rights . 
Despite these objections of mine to the Council ' s action and despite my view that it is better to work for integration than to employ isolating tactics , it was important to show clearly where the European Parliament stands on questions of racism , which is why I voted in favour of the resolution at the final vote . 
That concludes the vote . 
Adjournment of the session
I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned . 
 ( The sitting was closed at 12 . 25 p . m . ) 
Resumption of the session
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 3 February 2000 . 
Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting
The Minutes of the sitting on Thursday 3 February have been distributed . 
Are there any comments ? 
I can see from your reaction that many of the Members of Parliament have not received the Minutes and clearly you cannot approve Minutes which you have not seen . 
I therefore propose to submit the Minutes for your approval tomorrow morning , since obviously you do not have them and I must apologise for this . 
I shall therefore postpone the approval of the Minutes . 
Madam President , on a point of order . 
The BBC this morning reported that a British Member of this House , holding a senior position within his delegation , continues to offer strategic advice to private clients , but does not state in the Register of Interests who these clients are . 
The people of Europe have a right to expect their representatives to keep the public interest separate from private profit , but they can only be sure that this is being done in all cases if the information is both publicly available and easily accessible . 
Madam President , since these matters are currently being considered by the Quaestors , may I ask you to use your influence both to ensure that the Register of Interests is brought up to date and modified to cover instances of this kind and , above all , to ensure that the Register is not only available for inspection by this House , but is also published on the Internet ? 
Thank you , Mr Davies . 
I shall look into this matter with the College of Quaestors . 
Madam President , on a point of order . 
As this is the first Valentine ' s Day of the new millennium I hope that you will agree with me that it would be fitting for this House to mark this day by making a firm commitment to tackling heart disease , the biggest killer in the European Union . 
I would urge Members to sign up to the commitment made today at the Winning Hearts Conference that every child born in the new millennium has the right to live until the age of at least 65 without suffering from avoidable cardiovascular disease . 
Happy Valentine ' s Day ! 
Madam President , I rise under Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure of this House and allude to the same point raised by Mr Davies about the very serious allegations made on BBC radio this morning . 
I would welcome an assurance from you that you will order an investigation to ensure that the two Members who were named in this particular BBC interview are not running their companies from this Parliament or from parliamentary offices , because that would be a very serious matter indeed . 
In the past the British Conservatives ' double standards have brought the United Kingdom ' s House of Commons into disrepute , and there is a very real danger that such behaviour would have a similar impact on this Parliament . 
Thank you , Mr Murphy . 
As I informed Mr Davies , I promise to look into this matter this very evening with the quaestors . 
Madam President , on a point of order . 
I have already written to you on a number of occasions concerning how points of order are raised in the House . 
I wonder on what point of order Mr Davies was speaking . 
Why did he not mention the fact that one of his own Liberal colleagues also has a consultancy that is under investigation by the BBC ? 
Is this House going to let its agenda be determined by scurrilous reports on a programme which bases its news items on lies , or is it going to get down to serious work and address the challenges facing Europe ? 
Gentlemen , obviously the quaestors who look into this matter are not going to be basing their assessment just on information from radio programmes . 
They will look into the matter thoroughly . 
Madam President , I believe I am expressing the feeling of a great number of Members of Parliament in most of the political groups when I say that the message which the President of the Commission sent to the new Austrian Chancellor a week ago created some unease . 
Was it in fact necessary in this message to specifically offer his best wishes for success , or to say ,  " I am sure that you will demonstrate the same commitment as shown by your predecessors to liberty , democracy , respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms "  , or indeed that he awaited productive and constructive cooperation ? 
This is why , Madam President , I should like to see Mr Prodi clarify tomorrow exactly what significance he meant to give these words , so that nobody , absolutely nobody , can use this message , which is unusual and unwise , to say the least , to contribute , and that includes counter to the intentions of Mr Prodi , towards making the dangerous political operation taking place in Austria a commonplace . 
Thank you , Mr Wurtz . 
I would ask you , ladies and gentlemen , not to start a debate at this point . This was just a procedural motion . 
Let me remind you , Mr Wurtz , that we shall be seeing Mr Prodi tomorrow . He is going to make a statement on the Commission ' s programme . 
Naturally you will be perfectly free to ask him questions in the speeches you make following this statement , just as Mr Prodi will be perfectly free to answer you . 
I suggest that you clarify this matter at that time , if you so wish and if Mr Prodi agrees . 
Madam President , it is with great regret that I have to trouble you yet again with an issue that I have raised here twice before . 
I have already told you on a number of occasions that we , on behalf of the Dutch contingency , would like a Dutch television channel . 
There are now 28 channels here in this Parliament , including two Greek , one Portuguese , one Finnish and one Belgian , but still no Dutch , and as many as seven English , six German and six French . 
I was promised back in September that there would be a Dutch channel by January . 
It is now February and we are still waiting . 
I would ask you once again to work on this . 
I wonder what kind of mediaeval bureaucracy is at work here preventing a Dutch channel from being transmitted by satellite . 
Mrs Plooij - Van Gorsel , let me say how disappointed I am , because I personally thought this problem had been resolved long ago . 
I have clearly received your series of messages on this subject and I believe that Mrs Banotti has an answer for you . 
I shall therefore , with your permission , give the floor to Mrs Banotti to reply to you under the procedural motion . 
Madam President , as my dear friend Elly will know , I will do anything to make her and my Dutch colleagues happy . 
I would like to assure you as quaestor in charge of this issue that we have had technical discussions about the various channels on television and radio , and I have already started mailing colleagues in this connection . 
If it is of any comfort to her , the Irish have not got their channel yet either . 
There seem to be intractable technical problems but we are definitely working on it . 
Thank you for giving me the opportunity to clarify this . 
I am not so sure that our Dutch Members will be reassured on the grounds that the Irish Members too are unable to receive a national channel . 
I think we must do what we can to see that all Members can receive their own national channel . 
Thank you , Mrs Banotti , and also the other quaestors for your effort to achieve this . 
Madam President , I should like to tell Mr Wurtz that the Commission ' s doctrine is not the Brezhnev doctrine of limited sovereignty and that , until proved otherwise , we are not in the situation where Articles 6 and 7 would be applicable . 
Austria , therefore , is perfectly entitled to form its government and the President of the Commission is perfectly entitled , and even duty bound , to offer Austria his best wishes . 
Mr Wurtz should perhaps remember that not so long ago other members of his party , the French Communist mayors , were sending bulldozers against immigrant hostels in France . 
Agenda
The next item is the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents , pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure . 
a ) Sittings from 14 to 18 February 2000 in Strasbourg Relating to Wednesday : 
President . 
In view of the fact that no Council representative is able to attend on Wednesday evening , a number of groups - the Group of the European People ' s Party , the Group of the Party of European Socialists , the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left - requested that the Council statement on the Cyprus question and Mr Brok ' s report on the pre - accession strategy for Cyprus and Malta were dealt with during the joint debate and that these two items plus Mr Swoboda ' s report were brought forward in the agenda . 
This would then give us , for Wednesday ' s sitting , the two Council statements on the coherence of Union policies with development policy and on the UN ' Human Rights ' sitting , followed by the joint debate on Cyprus and then the reports by Mr Swoboda , Mr Corrie , Mrs Frassoni and Mr Knörr Borràs . 
Is there anyone who wishes to speak on behalf of these groups in favour of this proposal ? 
Since no one wishes to speak , I shall put this proposal to the vote . 
 ( Parliament gave its assent ) Relating to Thursday : 
President . 
I have received several proposed amendments relating to the topical and urgent subjects of major importance . 
On the subject of human rights , I have received two proposals for additions : one from the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party for an item entitled ' Cambodia ' and the other from the Group of the Greens , for an item entitled ' Pinochet '  . 
As you know , we can only include five items in the ' Human Rights ' section . 
According to the list given in the final version of the agenda , there are already four items . 
We can therefore table only one additional item . 
Who wishes to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party to propose the addition of an item on Cambodia ? 
