Madam President , it is hugely important to the Liberal Group that we talk about the situation in Cambodia , and that this is done at this particular time , not only on account of the letter which UN Secretary - General , Kofi Annan , has written to the government in Cambodia , asking it to take steps , at long last , to set up a special tribunal in order to call the leaders of the Khmer Rouge to account , but also because the Hun Sen regime , obviously not content with the attempted assassinations of the leader of the opposition , Mr Sam Raninsy , has now considered that his parliamentary immunity should be lifted to boot , so that he can simply be brought before the court . 
The international community has asked for justification for what is happening in Cambodia . 
After all , we approved the elections in Cambodia , in what was one of the biggest fiascos on the electoral observation front . 
Only this Parliament has emerged with some of its credit intact . 
I think that we , as a Parliament , even now have to assume our responsibility and speak out on the situation in Cambodia . 
 ( Parliament gave its assent ) President . 
The item on Cambodia is therefore added to the ' Human Rights ' section . This renders the proposed item on Pinochet null and void . 
In addition , I have received some proposals for subjects to be included in the topical and urgent debate . 
Here we are not adding any more sub - items under the ' Human Rights ' heading , we are introducing new items . 
There are three proposals : one proposal from the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left to add an item entitled ,  ' Moratorium on the death penalty in the United States and the case of Betty Beets '  ; a second proposal from the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party to add an item entitled ,  ' The Pinochet affair '  ; and a third from the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance for the inclusion of a new point ,  ' Environmental disaster in the Danube '  . 
In view of the time available given that , as you know , we have a Commission statement on the restructuring of business and that the current list already includes two items , we can only add two additional items . 
I shall take the proposal from the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left first . 
 ( Parliament rejected the proposal ) 
President . 
We will now take the proposal from the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party . 
Is there anyone to speak in favour of this proposal ? 
Madam President , it is remarkable that the European Parliament has not yet adopted a position on the possible release of Mr Pinochet , despite the fact that international arrest warrants have already been issued . 
Since the Belgian Government ' s appeal to a higher court was declared admissible last week and since the decision has essentially not yet been taken , it is important for Parliament to at last give out a strong message , a message which should signify that nobody can escape a just trial . 
It is inconceivable that the European Parliament , which quite rightly pays so much attention to respecting human rights , should fail to adopt a clear stance on this . 
Madam President , this matter is far too serious to be dealt with by means of an urgent procedure at this time . 
Firstly , the European Parliament has already expressed its opinion on the subject of General Pinochet , but , furthermore , there are certain questions to be borne in mind . 
The first is that this matter is sub judice in several European countries , and I would like to remind Members that there is still no European judicial area nor a European legal system . 
We are in favour of the International Criminal Court , but it does not yet exist . 
Secondly , there is currently a democratically elected government in Chile , led by Ricardo Núñez , whose first declaration was that all those who have committed this type of crime must face justice , and I would remind you that the Chilean justice system , which is independent , is currently examining 60 complaints lodged against General Pinochet , concerning his crimes against humanity . 
I believe that this is a serious issue which we are obliged to follow up , but it should not be dealt with by means of urgent procedure . 
We believe that justice should be done in this case , but this is not the most appropriate procedure . 
 ( Parliament rejected the proposal ) President . 
We now come to the third proposal which is for ' Environmental disasters in the waters of the Danube '  , a proposal tabled by the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance . 
Is there a Member who wishes to speak in favour of this proposal ? 
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , what has occurred in a tributary of the Danube is considered by many experts to be an accident on an environmental scale as serious as the scale of the Chernobyl disaster . 
It affects not only Romania , but also Yugoslavia and , in fact , the entire Danube basin . 
We consider the matter to be important enough for the Commission to react swiftly to this situation , and I think that Parliament must make its position clear and vote on a resolution on the subject . 
 ( Parliament gave its assent ) President . 
Still relating to Thursday ' s sitting , the PPE Group has requested that Mrs Cederschiöld ' s report on increasing protection by penal sanctions against counterfeiting in connection with the introduction of the euro should be brought forward to Wednesday as the last item on the agenda . 
Is there a Member who wishes to speak on behalf of the PPE in favour of this proposal ? 
Madam President , the agenda has been rearranged so many times that I would simply ask the Chamber to support the present proposal . 
It is not a very time - consuming matter , but it is extremely important that it should get through Parliament now and that there should be no delays . 
It is in fact about protecting the euro against counterfeiting , which is an extremely urgent matter . 
We have tried to drive this proposal through . I should therefore be very grateful indeed if the Chamber could support it . 
 ( Parliament gave its assent ) 
Relating to Friday : President . 
Relating to Friday , on Friday morning we have an oral question on postal services and the Group of the Party of European Socialists is requesting that the motions for resolutions should be put to the vote immediately after the debate and not in Brussels , as envisaged in the final version of the draft agenda . 
Is there a Member who wishes to speak on behalf of the PSE Group in favour of this proposal ? 
Madam President , with apologies to my friend , Enrique Barón Crespo , I should like to speak against this proposal . 
I am surprised it has even been made , because we came to an agreement following an exchange in the Conference of Presidents . 
I think that your proposal , Madam President , to keep the debate and the vote separate , with the debate on Friday and the vote at a later date , is a reasonable one . The reason is as follows : this issue concerns no less than 1 800 000 employees within the European Union . 
We already have a directive . It is not an old one , it was issued in 1997 . 
Deciding upon future policy lines , with a view to a new directive , rather hastily , without having had time to consult the trade unions or have discussions with all the social partners , I feel , runs counter to the spirit we wish to inject into the debate on matters which directly involve the social operators . 
I propose , therefore , that we should keep the arrangements as per the agenda , with the debate on Friday and the vote at a later date . 
Madam President , I clearly owe Mr Wurtz an explanation , and I am going give this explanation before the whole House . 
We had reached this agreement on principle in the Conference of Presidents . 
At the time , I did not know that Commissioner Bolkestein was going to appear next week before the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism to discuss this matter . 
My group has debated this matter and considers that , given the current situation of the whole process of market integration and deregulation in such a sensitive area , it is appropriate that Parliament makes an initial statement , regardless of any action it may take in the future , so that Commissioner Bolkestein may take good note and in order to guide next week ' s debate . 
Madam President , I should simply like to ask Mr Wurtz to take a second look at what this is about . 
It has nothing to do with any disputes on the substance ; it is just about the following question : when will the Commission - having already had a year and a half to do this - finally be in a position to table the directive ? 
Our sole intention in tabling the motion is to ensure that the deadlines which were promised are now finally adhered to , and it is therefore important that we act as quickly as possible . 
That is why I should like to support the Social Democrats ' request to hold the vote on Friday . 
 ( Parliament gave its assent ) 
Madam President , as you know the Cederschiöld report has been taken off Thursday ' s agenda . 
That ought to mean that we have more time on Thursday . 
Since we will be very pressed for time in the topical and urgent debate , in view of the many matters to be addressed in an hour and a half , I simply wanted to ask whether the sessional services might not check to see whether we could have an extra half an hour for the topical and urgent debate so that there is sufficient speaking time . 
In general the way in which sittings have been managed in recent weeks seems to me to have been very chaotic . 
Last Thursday speaking times were extremely tight and then suddenly we had between one and one - and - a - half hours when there was nothing on the agenda and we had to wait for the vote . 
On Friday of this week we have one single item on the agenda . 
That is absolutely absurd . 
I really should like to ask that a review be carried out of the way in which sittings are managed . 
This sounds perfectly feasible . 
We shall therefore see if we can extend the urgent debate by a half hour , considering the withdrawal of Mrs Cederschiöld ' s report . 
This is all I am talking about here , just that . 
Madam President , I would like to talk about an item on the agenda for Wednesday , which you have not yet announced . 
I understand that there is no argument about the fact that the Council declaration , on the next sitting of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights , is not going to include the declaration on the 50th anniversary of the Geneva Conventions , and that this declaration has been proposed for the plenary part - session in March , so that it may be delivered in a solemn and formal way . 
I understand that there is agreement on this issue . 
Madam President , this afternoon , in this Chamber , reference was made to a series of reports on the BBC Today programme this morning , which claimed that certain of my colleagues were running personal lobbying companies or somehow misusing their position as Members of this House . 
These are serious allegations . 
They are completely untrue , malicious , politically biased and were broadcast in the full knowledge of their falsehood . 
We are taking legal advice . My colleagues ' register of interests is complete . 
If we find that any Member of this House or their employees collaborated with the BBC in this farrago we will expose them to the opprobrium of this House . 
Quite , we agree absolutely . 
b ) Sittings of 1 and 2 March 2000 in Brussels
Sustainable urban development - rural development - EQUAL initiative
The next item is the joint debate on the four following reports : 
Report ( A5 - 0026 / 2000 ) by Mrs McCarthy , on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , on the Communication from the Commission to the Member States laying down guidelines for a Community initiative concerning economic and social regeneration of cities and of neighbourhoods in crisis in order to promote sustainable urban development ( URBAN )  ( COM ( 1999 ) 477 - C5 - 0242 / 1999 - 1999 / 2177 ( COS ) ) ; 
Report ( A5 - 0028 / 2000 ) by Mr Decourrière , on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , on the Communication from the Commission to the Member States laying down guidelines for a Community initiative concerning trans - European cooperation intended to encourage harmonious and balanced development of the European territory ( INTERREG )  ( COM ( 1999 ) 479 - C5 ­ 0243 / 1999 - 1999 / 2178 ( COS ) ) ; 
Report ( A5 - 0024 / 2000 ) by Mr Procacci , on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development , on the draft communication from the Commission to the Member States laying down guidelines for the Community initiative for rural development ( LEADER + )  ( COM ( 1999 ) 475 - C5 ­ 0259 / 1999 - 1999 / 2185 ( COS ) ) ; 
Report ( A5 - 0034 / 2000 ) by Mr Stenzel , on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs , on the draft communication from the Commission to the Member States establishing the guidelines for Community Initiative Programmes ( CIPs ) for which the Member States are invited to submit proposals for support under the EQUAL initiative ( COM ( 1999 ) 476 - C5 - 0260 / 1999 - 1999 / 2186 ( COS ) ) 
Since Mrs McCarthy ' s flight has been delayed slightly , I propose that we hear from Mr Decourrière first . 
 .  ( FR ) Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , Commissioners and members of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , I was given the task of drawing up the European Parliament ' s report on the Community Initiative Programme INTERREG III . 
Upon referral to committee , we examined over a hundred amendments and , so far , 17 amendments , some of which have already been presented in committee , have once again been tabled . 
Before discussing the content of the resolution , I should like to inform you of the elements which I took account of and which guided my work as rapporteur . 
First of all , I would like to remind you of the function of the INTERREG Community initiative , founded on the principle of transnationality and innovation . 
This programme constitutes a driving force for development on the European scale . 
INTERREG is one of the four Community initiatives scheduled for the period 2000 - 2006 , and is the one with the largest budget for implementation , i . e . EUR 4 . 875 billion as opposed to EUR 3 . 604 billion at the present time . 
The INTERREG initiative , created in 1990 , is built upon the wish to make the regions of Europe ready for a ' Europe without frontiers ' in the context of establishing the great single market . 
At the time of the reform of the Structural Funds in 1994 and 1996 , the INTERREG CIP has incorporated new strands contributing to the development of trans - European transport and energy distribution networks . 
These programmes promoted cross - border , transnational and interregional cooperation within the European Union by encouraging balanced development of the Community area . 
The INTERREG III programme , for which we have before us today the guidelines issued by the European Commission , pursuant to the terms of European Community Regulation No 1260 de 1999 laying down general provisions on the Structural Funds , continues these measures . 
It is based on three strands . strand A organises cross - border cooperation between regional and local authorities in border regions , at both internal and external borders of the European Union , on the basis of joint cross - border development strategies which Member States ' local and regional authorities are responsible for implementing . strand B governs transnational cooperation between national , regional and local authorities in various Member States or applicant countries regarding regional development , transport networks and the environment . 
Member States , i . e . national authorities , are responsible for implementing this strand . 
Finally , strand C organises interregional cooperation between different regions of the Member States or third countries to exchange experience under strands A and B and cooperate in the fields of research and technological development , subject to consultation with the European Commission which is responsible for its implementation . 
The new INTERREG programme , in the form in which we have received it , takes into consideration the needs engendered by enlargement to the countries of Eastern and Central Europe and to island regions and most remote regions . 
The Commission proposes redistributing the INTERREG funding as follows : between 50 and 80 % for strand A , 6 % for strand C , and the remainder for strand B , i . e . from 14 up to a maximum of 44 % . 
The European Commission draws up the list of eligible regions for strand A and strand B . It bases its assessment principally on the map of regions eligible during the previous programming period . 
