The most remote regions may benefit from support under strand B . The Commission draws up a list of priority areas and eligible measures which for strand A is not comprehensive , but is comprehensive for strand B . The Commission reserves the option to , at a later date , put forward topics it considers important to the exchange of experience and strengthened cooperation between regions , for strand C . 
The adoption procedure for the programmes is established by the general regulations on Structural Funds . 
Proposals are drawn up by Member States and are submitted for approval to the European Commission , which checks their conformity with the general guidelines , adopted . 
These proposals must include a number of elements , an overview of the cross - border or transnational priorities and strategies , a description of the measures necessary to their implementation and an indicative financial plan . 
I belong to the great majority of Members of Parliament who voted in favour of continuing the INTERREG Community Initiative Programme . 
I regret that Parliament was not informed about the appraisal of the previous programme , which would have enabled the new measures implemented to reach optimum efficiency , but I acknowledge that this was not an easy operation . I also regret the fact that we had an extremely short period to work in , as the text was examined in parliamentary committee on 24 November last year and then on 26 January . 
I further regret the fact that neither the regions , nor the representative regional organisations were involved in framing the programme . 
In promoting cross - border , transnational and interregional cooperation , this cross - disciplinary instrument is the very incarnation of a regional policy on the European scale intended to encourage harmonious and balanced development of the Community territory . 
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , the conference on rural development held in Cork from 7 to 9 November 1996 set rural development as one of the European Union ' s priorities since it is essential in order to maintain the existence and continued development of agriculture , to provide farmers with an environment containing the necessary infrastructure and services , and to ensure greater respect for the environment and a better quality of life , diversification and job creation . 
An integrated development policy for all rural areas in the European Union is therefore needed , consisting of the following elements : an integrated , multi - sectoral approach , simplification of administrative procedures , improvement of the partnership between European institutions and national and local actors and protection of the environment . 
In its 1998 policy paper , Agenda 2000 , the Commission set out two key principles on which rural development policy should be based : the recognition of the multifunctionality of agriculture and the need for an integrated strategy for developing rural areas . 
The first principle means creating a new ' pact ' between farmers and society , making the farmer ' steward of the countryside ' and ensuring that society is prepared to pay for the environmental services needed to safeguard the countryside ' s recreation value . 
The second principle is based on the fact that nowadays many of the job opportunities in rural areas are outside the traditional agricultural sector , so that a complete development programme which integrates rural development policies with agricultural sector policies needs to be implemented . 
In this way rural development is becoming a pillar of the CAP . 
The LEADER Community initiative was launched in 1991 to promote a new bottom - up approach to rural development and to diversify measures by adapting them to local needs . 
The following objectives were set : improving the development potential of rural areas by calling upon local initiative ; promoting the acquisition of knowledge in the rural development sector ; disseminating this knowledge to other rural areas . 
LEADER I applied to the rural areas covered by Structural Fund Objectives 1 and 5b , and 217 local action groups participated in it , with financing of EUR 1 155 million . 
LEADER II ( 1994 - 1999 ) , for which a total evaluation has , unfortunately , not yet been completed , had a wider scope than LEADER I : there were probably over 800 beneficiaries and the sums allocated , after reallocation of resources , probably amounted to over EUR 4 000 million . 
In October 1999 , following the success of LEADER I and LEADER II , the Commission decided to extend the initiative . 
For the 2000 - 2006 period provision has been made , unfortunately , only for a total contribution of EUR 2 020 million , and an indicative allocation for each Member State has been set . 
LEADER + differs from the previous stages in that all rural areas will be eligible . It is also more ambitious , and better geared to the challenges which rural areas will have to meet . 
The main changes are as follows : all rural areas will be eligible to benefit from LEADER + ; the selection criteria for local measures will be more rigorous ; integrated local development plans will be introduced as priority themes , such as the use of information technology , improving the quality of life , and adding value to local products . 
I therefore approve of the continuation of the initiative because , as I was saying , it emphasises the innovative development strategies and because it is more ambitious , even though there is still the need to make the criteria by which areas qualify as rural more flexible so as not to penalise rural areas with high or low population densities . 
I believe the networking system to be vital for the exchange of information and skills and for the implementation of joint projects between different areas of the Union and I repeat that in order to be fully successful it must exploit inter alia measures already in existence , such as the Carrefours . 
I share the Commission ' s preference for the use of global grants while urging , however , that the accounting requirements of national and regional authorities should be precisely and painstakingly defined . 
I regret the delay with which LEADER , as was the case with the other three initiatives , was presented to Parliament and for the knock - on delay this entailed for the whole procedure . 
Finally , I am concerned by the paucity of the amount allocated , if you consider , in addition , that this time the programme is available to all the countries of the Union and will be implemented for a year longer than the previous LEADER II . 
I would like to thank the Commission services for their helpfulness and cooperation , and I would like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture for the contribution they have made through their amendments . 
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , my report on EQUAL takes the form of an opinion delivered as part of the process of consultation on a new Community initiative , whose objective is to promote transnational cooperation and through it new methods of combating all forms of discrimination and inequalities in connection with the labour market . 
The report was a major undertaking because it also incorporates opinions from four further committees - from the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy , the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , the Committee on Women ' s Rights and Equal Opportunities , and the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs . 
This Community initiative succeeds the two forerunner programmes ADAPT and EMPLOYMENT and has a much smaller budget of around EUR 2 . 8 billion . 
The initiative adopts a completely new approach , which is to develop innovative employment models within transnational geographical or sectoral development partnerships . 
The intention is clear : targeted projects are to be developed at transnational level , projects which are based on the employment policy guidelines of employability , entrepreneurship , adaptability and equal opportunities . 
This objective is very much to be welcomed and also meets with a broad consensus in this House . 
In addition , EQUAL should feed into the National Action Plans for employment and its implementation should be able to be monitored through these Action Plans . 
It is an important Community initiative which , together with the three other initiatives , URBAN , LEADER and INTERREG , is financed out of the Structural Funds . 
In my report I have tried to reduce excessive administrative expenditure and to build greater openness and flexibility into the system of development partnerships . 
I consider technical support to be necessary but , given the problems with the former TAOs , no new TAOs should be set up without Parliament ' s approval so as to prevent political responsibility from being passed down to the technical assistance level . 
Nevertheless , technical assistance is necessary . 
Particular attention is also paid to the dissemination of results and learning from each other by identifying best practice , with special emphasis on mainstreaming . 
I have endeavoured to secure the widest possible support for the report . 
This has meant a reduction in the number of amendments - from over 100 in committee to 22 for the plenary - which has also created numerous opportunities for compromises . 
A compromise has now also been reached on the issue of asylum seekers . 
However , in this context , Madam President , to allow us to work out the details , I should like to request that the vote on the EQUAL report be held not tomorrow but on Wednesday . 
I believe that it is important for the Community initiative to be able to begin on time and therefore for the report to receive overwhelming support so that the Commission is also obliged to take into consideration the constructive proposals made by the European Parliament , because Parliament put the appropriations for EQUAL in the reserve precisely so as to ensure that Members ' ideas were also reflected in this Community initiative . 
In this connection , the European Parliament is also justified in insisting that it should be possible to amend the thematic priorities only after a further hearing in Parliament . 
EQUAL should live up to its name , and this is my firm intention . 
It should provide equal opportunities for all those at a disadvantage in the European Union . 
It should prevent society from splintering . 
It should prevent exclusion from being part of everyday life . 
Everyone should be given the opportunity to benefit here from a common initiative regardless of their age , gender or origin . 
That is my intention and I would ask the House to give this report overwhelming support ! 
Madam President , it is in itself an achievement that we are having this debate on the new URBAN Community initiative and it is an achievement that I am here tonight because Air France cancelled my flight at 2 . 10 p . m . but I am here ! 
Just a year ago when the Commission produced its proposals around Agenda 2000 it axed the URBAN initiative . 
Yet we as politicians knew that there was a groundswell of support for continuing this initiative into the year 2000 . 
Parliament , therefore , can take credit for a successful lobbying campaign to put URBAN back on the agenda and get the Commission and Council to make a U - turn . 
Urban policy has always been at the forefront of EU policy . 
In my Member State , for example , we are developing a strategic approach in a White Paper and an urban government taskforce is looking at the problems of urban communities . 
With eight out of ten people in Europe living in urban areas , it is right that we help our most deprived communities to tackle the all too familiar problems of deprivation , social exclusion , joblessness , crime , drug dependency and all the problems that are associated with that . 
For example , in my own region , in Manchester , the URBAN Community initiative has been a tremendous success . 
URBAN funds have been invested in one of the most deprived neighbourhoods in the UK , in Moss Side . 
The Millennium Youth Park project is helping to get young people re - engaged in regenerating their own community and in addition to support for small businesses and social policy we are beginning to see a turnaround of a very deprived urban community . 
The work of this URBAN agenda was then taken out to the wider community with an active communication and publicity campaign in local supermarkets and famous British pubs . 
This is the kind of good practice we would like to see extended across the EU in terms of communication and publicity . 
As regards the specific guidelines governing the initiative , they are broadly defined to give scope for local and regional diversity . 
We agree that they ought to be indicative in nature , allowing the maximum flexibility to ensure that we target specific programmes . 
In committee we are not in favour of reducing the number to 50 . 
We are in favour of reduction overall but we believe that the arbitrary number of 50 is not the key factor . 
Instead , we should go for good - quality projects that can act as a catalyst to effect change and renewal , to attract inward investment in terms of loans and venture capital and to achieve a multiplier effect . 
The Member States should therefore be able to propose a reasonable number of areas within the financial ceiling of their allocations . 
In the designation of local URBAN programmes we need to make good use of local indicators and statistics on deprivation and health to enable us to more effectively target the most affected areas . 
In the UK the local index of deprivation is a very good example of a widely used standard and statistic to help determine not only EU but national and regional assistance programmes . 
This needs to be acknowledged as a tool and resource in addition to the EU criteria . 
I would ask you to take on board local indicators to help us do that . 
Our most deprived urban neighbourhoods face a plethora of problems : high unemployment and often very low - paid precarious employment , poverty and social exclusion . 
Often these problems are compounded by poor health and housing stock and a culture of drug dependency . 
We therefore have unstable communities which are infiltrated with crime , drug - dealing and gangs . 
This is all too familiar in many of our urban areas . 
All these complex problems undermine the quality of life for our urban residents , yet we have the potential in these areas to create growth and prosperity . 
That is why again , in my report , I have asked that action under the URBAN Programme should not merely provide a single solution to a single problem : these areas do not have single ,  " mono " problems . 
Instead , communities in urban areas should be encouraged to present integrated action plans to tackle their specific urban problems , using EU resources as a value added to local actions . 
I would like to see those actions extended to cover health and anti - discrimination , as provided for in the Amsterdam Treaty . 
The Community initiative means community involvement . Some of the most active and committed proponents and agents of change in our urban areas are local residents . 
We need to encourage them to participate in designing and delivering projects for these programmes . 
The time - scale therefore proposed by the Commission is very ambitious . 
It is better to have quality projects with the active participation of community groups than to have projects delivered on time but without local participation . 
The Commission must of course provide full disclosure and transparency concerning the selection criteria used for the new urban initiatives but it must also disclose the consultancy networks which are being used to deliver the exchange of good practice . 
This is important in the interests of transparency and the overall effectiveness of networks . 
Finally , I should like to emphasise that in order to address the problems facing the post - industrial city we require local participation . 
We need to deploy the energies of the unemployed , the underused skills of youth and the experience of age to tackle these problems . 
We shall thereby be able to replace poverty , dependency and alienation with equity , initiative and participation . 
This will help us to restore the credibility of the EU and the confidence of citizens that Europe can deliver local action to solve local problems . 
 .  ( IT ) Mr President , as the rapporteur , Mrs McCarthy , has already pointed out , we can certainly consider URBAN a success for the European Parliament with regard to the debate held last year on the reform of the regulations . 
As we have heard , the objective of URBAN is the promotion of innovative strategies to promote economic and social regeneration in urban areas , bearing in mind that 80 % of the population of Europe lives in cities . 
Creating a functioning urban environment in terms of social policy requires a policy of long - term job creation , action to combat poverty , measures to assist low - income groups and old people , facilities for children , racial and ethnic integration , better opportunities for participation , a targeted public health policy including measures to prevent drug abuse and concerted crime prevention measures . 
The Communication from the Commission takes account of the need to adopt approaches combining a range of economic , social , and infrastructural measures . 
However , we must remember that , in addition to URBAN , a number of other Community instruments are also available in the social sector : innovative actions under Article 6 of the ESF regulation , pilot projects , particularly the new preparatory action for local commitment to employment that has just been introduced by the European Parliament under the 2000 budget and the EQUAL and INTERREG initiatives and mainstream ESF activities . 
As the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs stressed in its opinion , the Commission must therefore recognise the need to exploit synergies in this context while avoiding duplication of multiple funding . 
While , on the one hand , we believe that steering committees should ensure that the various projects are coherent and complementary , we would on the other hand urge the Commission to reinforce exchanges of information and coordination between the departments involved . 
Not only is this coordination essential but , as we stated in our opinion , exchanges and the dissemination of expertise and good practice must also be essential . 
Mr President , the importance of this initiative is increasing constantly as economic and social problems in Europe ' s cities intensify and the public feels more and more out of touch with the administration of its city or neighbourhood . 
That situation will be compounded by social reclassifications resulting from European Union enlargement , and we must therefore make provision for the economic regeneration and social cohesion of our cities . 
Addressing those problems is all the more urgent in view of the marked spread of cities into the surrounding areas and in view of the cities ' historical and cultural role . 
However , in order for such an effort to succeed it is necessary to secure the commitment and participation of the public as a whole and to enlist the support of the less active social groups and the groups particularly affected by the economic and social crisis . 
Here , we wish to stress the need for the balanced involvement of women , and the agencies that represent them , in planning and implementing the URBAN initiative programmes . 
As the Committee on Equal Opportunities , we also stress the need to finance infrastructures that will facilitate professional activity by women , mainly by harmonising their professional and family commitments , and more generally infrastructures that promote solidarity between the generations , social solidarity . 
Effective implementation of this initiative could have a cumulative result because it could inspire similar action at regional and local levels , thus increasing its political importance still further since women need to feel the effects of European policy in their day - to - day life in real terms . 
Mr President , our committee welcomed the priorities proposed by the Commission for the URBAN programme of better integration of local communities and ethnic minorities and improved security and crime prevention . 
In committee we thought that it was necessary for the economic and social regeneration of urban areas to go hand - in - hand with the creation of an atmosphere of tolerance towards minorities and therefore for measures designed to reduce racism and xenophobia to be an integral part of programmes to be funded by URBAN . 
We considered that increasing public confidence by combating everyday urban crime was one of the central tasks of urban regeneration . 
Our committee noted that innovative and effective action to combat and prevent crime at local level would require a whole array of measures including the incorporation of crime prevention in town planning , action to prevent juvenile delinquency , the reintegration of offenders , and models for effective local cooperation between the various parties involved , for example the police , the courts and social services . 
We adopted our recommendation unanimously in the committee because we felt that it was particularly important to continue URBAN - which in the past has been implemented successfully - because , as we see it , programmes of this kind are the only way in which we in the European Union will succeed in ensuring that in the long term all those who live in the European Union enjoy peaceful coexistence . 
For this reason we very much welcome programmes of this kind . 
I should like to comment on the concerns which the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has with regard to the largest of the four Community initiatives , INTERREG III . 
It must also be possible to a considerable extent for social measures to receive support under INTERREG III . 
In the light of the fact that 50 % of unemployment in the Union is essentially structural and given the particular sensitivity of the situation in the border regions - I need only refer to the possibility of unwelcome migration - this is not only reasonable but imperative . 
The measures eligible for funding listed in Annex II of strand A do also seem encouraging in this respect . 
In reality , however , the Commission communication does not contain a single provision for the Member States with these integrated approaches for social and employment policy aspects . 
I should therefore like to draw your attention in particular to the inclusion of increased numbers of vocational training measures , especially in areas with high levels of long - term and youth unemployment . 
Employment policy measures should also be eligible for funding under strand B , especially for the applicant countries as part of the pre - accession strategy . 
In general where the employment policy measures are concerned it would seem to me to be necessary for appointments to the joint cooperation committee to be made on a regional basis - because the local expertise required for these specific purposes is only available at regional level - so as to avoid these measures becoming too abstract and therefore proving disappointing . 
The fact that administrative expenditure on INTERREG III is - in my opinion - still excessive is something which we can and indeed always must criticise , although it almost seems to me as though this is unavoidable with the Commission ' s support programmes . 
However , I should like to point out that it is precisely here that this is fatal . 
It is precisely where employment policy is concerned that we should work towards measures which are as simplified as possible so that the social dimension of the EU is once again given the importance which it deserves . 
Mr President , the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism considered , amongst other things , the report on LEADER + and , as a result , agreed to support the process of decentralisation in the management of actions , believing that that process could be effective on two conditions : that local action groups represent the general interests of the local community , and that Commission control mechanisms are utilised to prevent local and regional political authorities from using LEADER + resources to support civil groups and organisations which are related to those authorities . 
We ask for a guarantee that the decision - making bodies for the projects are represented equally by three elements : political representatives and public administrations , companies and economic operators , and social operators , including unions and non - governmental organisations . We would particularly like to stress that there must be balanced representation between men and women in all of these bodies . 
We would also like to stress that the main objective is the promotion of strategies for sustainable development , whose positive effects would extend to a broader geographical area than the local community itself , and we therefore feel it is appropriate for the projects to be integrated into the development programmes , included in Objectives 1 and 2 , and into the regional planning of the regions and countries in which they are located . 
We are pleased that all the rural areas of the Union may be involved in LEADER + , but we believe that it is necessary to concentrate Community resources in the less - favoured regions in order to facilitate the process of socio - economic cohesion within the Union , and that state governments should not divert these resources towards objectives other than cohesion . 
The Committee believes that projects financed under action 1 should place value on the potential of endogenous development , in particular based on local traditions , techniques and practices , on specific production and on the management of sustainable energy . 
The Committee supports the Commission proposal to concentrate actions in small selected areas and believes that , given the dispersed nature of many rural inhabited locations , the minimum demographic ceiling for the selection of a project should be reduced to 10 000 inhabitants . 
We believe it is necessary to coordinate the development objectives and management mechanisms of actions 2 and 3 , financed by LEADER , with those of other actions financed by other Community programmes relating to interregional and international cooperation and partnership , such as INTERREG , SAPAR , PHARE , TACIS and MEDA , in the same areas . 
Mr President , Mrs Stenzel , ladies and gentlemen , before addressing the EQUAL report itself , I should like to make a point of principle in connection with the employment guidelines on which the report is based . 
The basic objectives of an EU - wide employment policy are laid down in the guidelines and include employability , entrepreneurship and adaptability . 
These objectives are obviously intended to make employees as useful and usable as possible to the economy . 
However , the aim of an approach which really sought to reduce discrimination effectively and in the long term would have to be people ' s self - determination . 
Only then does it stop being a question of economic usability and start being about people having equal rights to shape their own lives . 
Mrs Stenzel ' s report has , however , turned out very well , at least where the prescribed guidelines are concerned . 
All asylum seekers and refugees are to be included explicitly in the programmes , although this should be self - evident . 
Nevertheless the Conservatives voted against this in the committee . 
I would ask them the following questions : does your policy seek to marginalise people ? 
What is the idea behind preventing people from working when they wish to do so ? 
Does this not stand in stark contradiction to the guideline on employability ? 
It is also worth mentioning that this is a mainstreaming programme , because there remains a shortcoming in the report . 
Particular emphasis is given to the point that women ' s opportunities on the labour market ought to be improved and that to achieve this more crèches should be built . 
Anyone who lets men happily climb the career ladder and worries only about childcare places without fighting against the way in which the work of reproduction is shared out unevenly has not - and unfortunately that includes women - understood the concept of mainstreaming ! 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism adopted this opinion on the EQUAL report at its concluding discussion with no votes against and one abstention . 
I am deliberately stating this at the beginning of my intervention to make it clear that there is in fact an alternative view to that of the committee responsible , the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs . 
This cross - group support for the opinion is explained by the conclusions , which are devoted to the question of how issues related to regional policy , transport and tourism can be combined with action to combat all forms of discrimination and inequalities in connection with the labour market . 
The members of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism of course also identify a number of areas of the Commission proposal which they would criticise : firstly , for example , the insufficient thematic guidelines laid down for the development partnership activities ; secondly , the fact that strict selection criteria for evaluating the project proposals will only be drawn up only at a later stage by the Commission and thirdly , the fear of excessive administrative and technical expenditure on project management by the Commission and the technical assistance bodies . 
That is why a ceiling needs to be set for administrative expenditure . 
The committee based its conclusions on these critical comments . 
We attached particular importance to linking the creation of new jobs for disadvantaged and excluded people in the social sector , in tourism and in small and medium - sized enterprises with promoting the establishment of new small and medium - sized businesses bearing in mind the necessary economic structural change . 
Dovetailing the activities under the Community initiative with the European employment initiatives is an essential requirement and a crucial prerequisite for attaining the objectives of the EQUAL programme . 
We fully support the innovative approach towards setting up development partnerships and organising the exchange of experience at European level as an integral part of the EQUAL programme . 
The specific target of deriving European added value brings the regional cooperation up to European level while retaining the cooperation of the various regional operators . 
This is a good approach and that is why we have also supported it . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , it has already been mentioned today that the first URBAN initiative was an unqualified success . 
The fact that this initiative will now be continued in the form of URBAN II , albeit with a smaller budget , is something for which we have to thank individual , committed Members of this Parliament , including in particular - as far as I have heard as a new Member of this Parliament - the rapporteur Mrs McCarthy , whom I should therefore like to thank very much for her dedication and of course also for her report on URBAN II . 
A new feature of the URBAN II initiative is that it has been tailored to small cities or parts of cities . 
This is important because it is precisely small cities which often find it harder to access aid . 
And yet the problems which give rise to the urgent need for regeneration can be particularly acute precisely in cities of this kind and thus have a proportionally adverse effect . 
To increase the effectiveness of individual measures the number of projects for URBAN II has been limited to 50 . 
I think that it is important not to stick rigidly to this arbitrary quantitative restriction and instead to leave it to the Member States to decide between how many projects they each wish to divide the support funds to which they are entitled . 
In any case it is necessary to ensure that in small Member States in particular it is not only areas of large cities which are again in receipt of the support . 
There URBAN II would only be a drop in the ocean ; its success would be doubtful and the whole thing would be a flop . 
Just as important in my view is not to broaden the selection criteria for URBAN II too much and thus water them down . 
It is precisely a strictly defined list of criteria which is essential if the programmes which are funded are to be models and be transferable to other problem cities in the future . 
From my own experience of local government in an old industrialised region beset with problems , I should like , in conclusion , to ask for your particular support , ladies and gentlemen , for two points in the report which alongside the social policy aspects are , I believe , essential . 
Firstly , environmental protection is essential for sustainable urban development and the inclusion of this aspect should therefore be a general requirement for a project to receive funding . 
Secondly , preventing and combating routine urban crime and crime related to drug dealing must start at local level . 
These are essential steps towards increasing the quality of urban life and must therefore also play a central role in the URBAN II initiative . 
