Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I would like to thank the rapporteurs , who have managed to produce excellent reports in just a short time . 
However , criticism has been voiced within my group over the timing of the preparatory work of the committee . 
The reports are late , and , in addition , they were very hastily discussed by the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism . 
A good opportunity to discuss the results , good practices and shortcomings of the earlier programmes was therefore lost . 
Our group is keen to stress the importance of cross - border activity under the INTERREG programme and especially cooperation focusing on areas outside the European Union . 
Such important areas include the Balkans and the Adriatic region , but , in my opinion , we should not ignore cooperation with Russia either . 
Our group would once again like to raise the issue of the practical monitoring of funds and emphasise the importance of better coordination of the INTERREG , TACIS , ISPA and PHARE programmes . 
This coordination is at present lacking , and the Commission has not as yet made any precise proposals to improve it . 
We here in Parliament are waiting for the Commission to give the committee a more detailed explanation of the issue as soon as possible . 
It is of decisive importance to get local business , organisations and other players involved in the practical implementation of programmes . 
Experience shows that projects of cooperation need better planning and closer monitoring and need to be generally more successful . 
Projects have often remained half - finished , and their efficiency has been drained by administration and bureaucracy . 
We also have to demand that our partners in cooperation be committed to projects and fulfil their share of the agreement . 
Our group is reviewing a few amendments that were rejected by the committee . 
I would like to mention here again the URBAN report , in which the rapporteur , in the explanatory statements , has dealt admirably with the issue of the minimum sum of EUR 500 per inhabitant as per the Commission ' s guidelines . 
It will not work as an automatic target , but must be applied in the target area according to prevailing conditions . 
This is such an important matter for consideration that firm conclusions have to drawn . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , INTERREG is one of the most European of all the Structural Funds . 
Here , projects covering only one region or one country will not receive support ; they will have to cover neighbouring regions in two or more countries . 
Unfortunately this is only true for part of the money , that is only for the borders within the EU . 
But it is precisely the regions on borders with third countries which need an operational instrument to foster cross - border cooperation . 
The regulation pretends that there is one , but there is not . 
The fact is that the Commission has not amended the regulation for years , although Parliament has been calling for it to do so for some time . 
The practical consequence for these regions in the immediate future is that support for border areas will again be downgraded . 
Since 1996 , Parliament has been calling for a joint fund to be created for cooperation with third countries in order to resolve difficulties . 
Nothing has happened ! 
The difficulties are once again being allowed to persist , to the detriment of the regions concerned . 
Parliament is here renewing its call for an improvement and for cross - border cooperation , and we look forward to a joint fund being created and to the regulation being amended once more in cooperation with the other Commissioners . 
We want a Europe for the people and not a Europe of paper - pushers ! 
Mr President , a third of EU money is invested in funds for all kinds of development causes . 
According to my group , this is excellent if , as a result of this , deprivation within regions , towns and population groups is eliminated or if health and the environment improved . 
That is a question of solidarity and progress . 
But dishing out increasing amounts of money is no guarantee for improved spending . 
The local councils and regions where the money ends up have since gained practical experience . 
They find it is extremely difficult to spend the money on their most needy causes . 
Anything related to economic growth and infrastructure usually scores quite highly , but social goals and environmental causes often cannot count on approval . 
Since there is great uncertainty surrounding the way in which rules are interpreted , local councils and regions have now started to enlist the services of expensive bureaux . 
The task of these experts is to gauge to what extent European Commission officials would be prepared to approve plans . 
In some cases , I get the impression that it is not about solidarity or alleviating the most desperate problems , but about propaganda and upholding vested interests in exchange for the European Union ' s blessing . 
It seems that the key goal there has become the construction and painting of propaganda panels advertising the fact that such and such a project has been co - financed by the European Union . 
Too much money is wasted on propaganda and investigation bureaux , consultation and control , and a great deal of money ends up back in the country where it was collected in the first place . 
After the planned accession of new Member States with their 100 million inhabitants , the prosperity level of which is at one third or two thirds of the average level of the current EU Member States , this squandering will generate even more protest . 
In the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , the Confederal Group of the European United Left was in agreement with the draftsman of the opinion , Mr Nogueira Román , on LEADER . He was right to point out that it is not a good idea to share out this funding between all rural areas . 
If there is a choice between investing in innovation projects or injecting most of the funding into bringing on deprived areas , we would opt for the latter as this does the most to benefit equality . 
After all , innovation in areas that have already grown prosperous is paying dividends even now and taking place without European funding . 
A second point where we need to focus our attention is the possibility of nepotism and abuse of power within regional and local councils . 
The emphasis is on local groups in which the authorities , non - profit - making organisations and profit - making companies join forces . 
The discussion has centred on the allocation formula to be applied . 
In this respect , one of the variants considered is reminiscent of the Dutch polder model , the structurally planned cooperation between government , trade unions and employers ' organisations . 
Let us not forget that elections for local councils and regional parliaments are held so as to represent the entire population . 
So , really , these bodies should already provide for a balance , and take into account the wishes of the union movement and environmental movement in the process . 
My group welcomes the fact that the union movement and environmental movement are expressly given their own roles to play , as their input in society is important in our view . 
This could prevent local governments that are functioning in a short - sighted or insufficiently democratic way from neglecting their duty of input from the very start . 
But the fact that we now fear abuse of power and nepotism indicates that , unfortunately , democracy is not fully functioning yet . 
One of the objections is that , due to the restricted role of the elected bodies , businesses gain more influence . 
As long as the economy does not weigh up the needs of all in a democratic way but is more concerned with making a profit for the benefit of a few , it is questionable as to whether democracy functions better under the rule of employers than under the rule of local councils . 
We believe in ' one man , one vote ' more than ' one share , one vote '  . 
Mr President , there are economic frontiers within the European Union , and the internal market with the free movement of goods , persons , services and capital is fully operating at this time . 
But for the internal market to work effectively and for the single European currency to be a success it is important that all regions within Europe , of which there are over 100 , can economically compete within this very challenging environment . 
Some areas within the European Union are economically very strong and heavily exceed the average income per capita . 
There are poor regions within the Union which need to be given European assistance to improve the fabric of their economies so that they can compete within the European Union structure . 
That is why , when we look at the EU Financial Perspective between 1989 and 1993 , and 1994 and 1999 , we find such a large proportion of the EU budget was put aside for the administration of the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund . 
There are twin problems that still remain for many regions in Europe : firstly , the lack of adequate infrastructure in terms of road , water treatment facilities and related transport networks ; secondly , the need to put in place initiatives to combat youth and long - term unemployment , which is a constant social problem in many urban and rural parts of Europe . 
There must always be a commitment to ensuring that we do not only build a Europe of the cities alone . We need to ensure that job creation initiatives are in place to promote employment opportunities in the small - and medium - sized enterprise sector in rural parts of Europe as well . 
The core aspects of this debate this evening relate to the operation of the EU initiative programmes , namely , the new INTERREG III initiative , EQUAL and the LEADER + scheme . 
Between these three programmes there must be a clear demonstration of the commitment of the EU to promoting cross - border development , combating the problems of long - term unemployment and supporting rural development schemes . 
Mr President , quite a few towns and cities within the European Union have to contend with deprivation . 
The Member States do not always have sufficient means at their disposal to address this deprivation adequately . 
This is why it is useful for the European Union to continue to support the Member States and , if necessary , give additional support under URBAN . 
Over the next seven years , the Commission ' s proposals concerning URBAN will entail a reduction in both the Community budget and the number of areas standing to benefit . 
In common with Mrs McCarthy , I have to note that the number of areas has been drastically reduced . 
It is desirable for Member States to have a certain amount of freedom to determine the number of projects themselves within the confines of a certain budget . 
As far as the budget is concerned , as already stated , URBAN is there to support and complement national policy . 
In order to generate extra means if necessary , I think it is entirely logical to turn first to the Member States and private investors . 
Consequently , we cannot support Amendment No 2 of the Greens , as borne out in the committee meeting . 
In addition , I am of the opinion that funding for a town or neighbourhood , especially where Community contributions are concerned , should incentivise . 
Structural support is said to cause subsidy - dependence . 
We would then be overreaching ourselves . 
I would like to finish off by making a general comment on INTERREG . 
In my opinion , funding for cross - border initiatives should only be provided if it is actually required by the regions . 
When projects are implemented , it is also important that they do not contravene general Community legislation . 
According to the report issued by the Court of Auditors on the year 1998 , this is not an imagined risk . 
Hence our amendment in order to prevent contradictions between general policy and actual projects . 
Before I begin I will take the liberty of expressing my consternation at the way in which Austria has been prejudged by 14 Council representatives . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , as part of the reform of the Structural Funds the Community initiatives are being pruned to a total of four . 
I welcome the continuation of INTERREG and the priority which it has been accorded . 
However , the delayed presentation of the draft guidelines has caused a number of problems . 
The regions have not been sufficiently involved in the preparation of the guidelines , although this demand was often made in the debate about the reform of the Structural Funds . 
There is no direct transition between INTERREG II and III , the practical consequences of which are uncertainty in terms of planning and gaps in funding . 
That is a shame because it threatens perfectly sensible projects . 
When INTERREG is implemented , it will need to be coordinated and synchronised with the other financial instruments concerned . 
This is particularly important in order to increase the efficiency of the funds deployed . 
However , problems will arise in particular from the fact that under PHARE , for example , funds are managed on an annual basis and allocation of appropriations is project - related , whereas INTERREG funds are multiannual and are allocated on a measures - related basis . 
This will cause practical problems in the future , and I hope that despite this it will be possible to implement INTERREG effectively . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the Community initiative LEADER proved itself to be an effective instrument to initiate innovative developments and pilot projects both within and outside rural areas . 
The preservation of this Community initiative in particular , in the form of a new version - LEADER +  - is therefore greatly to be welcomed . 
The new LEADER + programme now covers all rural areas in the European Union , which will open up greater possibilities for potential projects . 
It is important for there to be coordination between LEADER + and the other support initiatives in the European Union , but coordination with other national support schemes is also just as important . 
Overlap between support schemes must be avoided and at the same time it must also be possible to exploit any synergistic effects . 
In this context the aim of stepping up networking between eligible zones under LEADER is very welcome . 
Agriculture is one of the cornerstones of the rural environment and it must be possible for it to have a part in the LEADER initiative . In the same way , through the LEADER initiative , structural change in agriculture can be supported by creating new jobs in rural areas . 
Attention must be paid in the LEADER + programme to all the sectors of the economy in rural areas ; only a combined effort will reap an optimal result . 
LEADER must now move into the implementation phase . 
The operational programmes need to be approved as quickly as possible by the Commission , which implies practical and efficient administration of applications and completion of the application approval process as quickly as possible . 
Five months are provided for this . 
That seems to me to be rather too long . 
Efforts should be made here to achieve shorter times . 
Because anyone who develops a project and has it ready will also want to start implementing it as soon as possible . 
Despite all the delight over the reworking of this Community initiative LEADER + , I do still have one further concern . In its proposal the Commission called for an observatory for the LEADER + programme without going into detail on how this proposal would be implemented . 
For me this raises the following questions : who will work there ? 
How will these people be selected ? 
Where , above all , will the required money come from , and where should this observatory be located ? 
I do think , though , that the LEADER + programme has not got a penny to spare on additional administrative tasks , which in the normal course of events would have to be carried out by the Commission in any case . 
In addition , experience from other fields where observatories have been set up shows that , apart from rather dubiously creating jobs , they are not of any great benefit . 
I would therefore call on the Commission to fulfil its monitoring duties directly itself and to do all it can to ensure that LEADER + programmes run smoothly . 
Assessment and publication are part of this , and it has of course assumed responsibility for these in the past . 
Mr President , the majority of the borders , which have divided Europe for centuries , were artificially created , separating single geographic spaces and creating serious disparities in terms of balanced development and cohesion . 
Our internal borders , or what remains of them , no longer cause wars , but they do continue to generate economic backwardness , social barriers and a lack of cultural communication between the peoples of Europe . 
The Community ' s institutions are obliged to work towards overcoming these border scars , which contradict the spirit of European unity . 
The economic and social cohesion which we propose is based , by means of the INTERREG initiative , on territorial cohesion and on the integration of border areas and the outermost regions of our continent . 
INTERREG has always been at the heart of a genuine Community policy for regional planning and a truly polycentric notion of our European territory . 
Although the European Parliament supports this initiative , our only regret is that we have to approve a resolution on it before we have seen any evaluation of INTERREG II . 
However , we are aware that we must not delay this third version further , since otherwise we would be jeopardising the success of various projects and the continuity of the projects which are currently underway . The success of INTERREG is clear and that is the opinion of the local , regional and national authorities which have participated in the cofinanced projects . 
The people who have participated in this initiative have learnt the importance of learning together , of innovation , of sharing projects and good practices and of understanding and tolerating each other . 
There are many interesting questions relating to it , the monitoring centre , the principle of concentration etc . However , I would like to concentrate on the management bodies . 
We must create joint , interregional and transnational management bodies , in which all local and regional authorities , as well as economic and social operators , play an active role . 
There must not be any repetition of cases of parallel projects on both sides of a border . 
We must create a cross - border culture , and to this end we must be innovative with regard to administrative cooperation , imaginatively overcoming existing barriers and overcoming the difficulties posed by the differing levels of competence in each Member State , in each region and each municipality . 
A project must never fail to be implemented as a result of difficulties in communication . 
During debates in committee , we have also pointed out the difficulties involved in coordinating INTERREG with other annual or biannual financial instruments , such as MEDA , TACIS or PHARE . 
This Parliament ' s motion for a resolution has been very attentive to these difficulties , making proposals capable of solving them to the Commission and setting reasonable deadlines for making the necessary changes . 
Mr President , my reason for wanting to contribute to this debate is because the URBAN initiative , in Ireland in particular , has been quite successful and I am keen that the European Union make a further contribution in that area . 
It is a sad fact that there are many hundreds , if not thousands , of communities in the European Union suffering very severe poverty and disadvantage . 
Even in Member States and cities that are extremely wealthy we have large numbers of people living in ghettos , in situations where there are inadequate facilities , where schooling is very poor , where the physical infrastructure is under - developed and where drugs and other phenomena are rife . 
It seems to me that in order for the European Union to demonstrate that it has a role in helping the citizens of the European Union it must give assistance to Member States to demonstrate that the Union works for these citizens and their families . 
The programme has been extremely successful in Ireland , as indeed I know it has been successful in other countries . 
It was quite slow in getting off the ground there , but it was slow because it was necessary to have the local people themselves develop these programmes . 
It is important that they use their initiative and their own local expertise in developing this initiative . 
It would be very easy to have these programmes developed quickly and on time if you brought in outside professional experts but that would undermine the whole purpose of the URBAN programme . 
I should like to make one further point before I conclude : we should insist where this money is being allocated and where this programme is being developed that it be done in the context of a serious URBAN development policy . 
This , unfortunately , is not the case in Ireland . 
I applaud the innovative approach of the EQUAL programme and the aim of integrating discriminated groups into the labour market . 
The development partnerships are a very clever idea , even though they are experimental . 
I have two major concerns , however , about the development partnerships . 
They should be accessible to smaller groups , accessible for them to be able to devise , implement and monitor the programmes . 
We need to have a wide element of flexibility within the programme . 
I have also expressed concern in the past about the use of simple language and not using jargon , so that it becomes accessible to everyone . 
I am glad to see that this was accepted into the report , but I cannot agree with Amendment No 9 because that amendment really is not expressed in simple language at all . 
My second concern was that some discriminated groups have specific problems , for example , disabled people ' s access to the workplace . 
Projects should also specifically address this problem . These concerns must be looked at while setting up the programmes . 
I certainly intend to do that with organisations and groups in my constituency in the West Midlands . 
I now turn to the controversial issue of asylum - seekers and refugees . 
Although I am not in favour of those refugees who have been refused refugee status and threatened with repatriation , having access to EQUAL , I would support the possibility of access for all other asylum - seekers and refugees . 
It is only fair and right for them to be able to access EQUAL in the same way as everyone else . 
Thank you , Mr President . 
Ladies and gentlemen , with the LEADER report , rural development is very much to the fore . 
This does not happen all that often and it is gratifying , especially as the LEADER programmes have been key elements in the Union ' s rural development policy . 
It must be pointed out that these programmes have not only been instrumental in structuring regional planning , but have also been vital instruments for economic and social cohesion in often vulnerable areas such as , for example , areas experiencing depopulation . 
It must be stressed that in order to become eligible under the LEADER programme , local operators have combined forces , debated and prepared projects . 
These programmes have , therefore , been important channels for participative democracy , the rationale of the citizen for Europe . 
So , the concept for LEADER + should retain all the positive aspects of previous programmes . 
One urgent question is therefore raised : why , when this programme has been successfully run for ten years , is LEADER + still classed as experimental ? 
Are there so many other European schemes which can boast 800 specific original experiments which were particularly successful ? 
For how much longer is the Commission going to leave LEADER at the experimental stage instead of bringing it online as part of the general concept of mainstreaming of rural development ? 
Moreover , I wonder at the reduced guidelines to which the Commission wishes to restrict LEADER + . 
At a time when , Commissioner , after Seattle , we Europeans are fighting on the grounds of multifunctionality in rural development projects , why should we confine ourselves to a few limited criteria with resources that are far from sufficient ? 
As an ecologist , let met tell you that the precautionary principle and sustainable development require much more diversified and many - sided approaches . 
In this connection , the Commission is proposing to limit yet further the cooperation actions of local action groups to only candidate countries . 
A better solution would be , as indeed the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism suggests , strengthened coordination between LEADER + and the Community cooperation and partnership programmes , such as INTERREG , PHARE , SAPARD or MEDA . 
The fact is , showing solidarity with Eastern Europe , is all very well , but it is not enough . 
The tradition which has already been established by the previous programmes with the countries of the south , particularly the countries around the Mediterranean , must not be abandoned . 
Therefore , once more , we can stress that what the area of agriculture and rural development really needs is codecision . Codecision would give us effective means to progress programmes of this type , which require cooperation and cross - disciplinary application . 
Mr President , I have a few very brief comments . 
We are debating the planning phase and guidelines for the four Community initiatives without access to any substantive and complete appraisal of the previous period . 
This is not very good at all . 
Programmes and objectives usually turn out to be far too ambitious and their results are not always satisfactory , while the lack of transparency and complexity of the plans often allow considerable scope for mismanagement and even fraud . 
The Community initiatives we are debating could play a positive part subject to certain preconditions . 
They must , however , not be subordinated to the objectives and aspirations of a more generally negative economic and social policy , but must develop their own self - sufficient role . 
For example , adapting EQUAL to the objectives of employability and the flexibilisation of labour relations transforms this initiative into a new version of local employment contracts . 
Extending the LEADER initiative to every area in the Union entails the risk of marginalising deprived areas even more , to the benefit of more developed areas . 
The INTERREG initiative must include eligible areas with special emphasis on border areas , islands and both mountain and non - mountain areas , such as the prefecture of Arta in Greece , whose omission from Annex I of the Commission ' s communication is ill - considered . 
Mr President , rural development has been identified by this Parliament and the Commission as a priority policy area , and I would like to welcome here today the Commissioner responsible , Commissioner Fischler . 
Our response to rural decline has come late in the day , but I suppose better late than never . 
Family farming is now recognised as central to the European agricultural model and is an objective to be addressed , certainly within the time - scale of Agenda 2000 . 
In my view the next five years will decide the future of thousands of marginal family farms . 
It behoves all of us to do everything possible to ensure their survival . 
As the Commissioner knows , farming alone will not be sufficient to ensure the sustainability of rural communities . 
For this reason we need the coordination of all policy areas capable of impacting positively on rural development . 
In this regard LEADER has established itself as an effective development initiative . 
It provides the opportunity for local communities to identify their development potential and become actively involved in addressing those problems . 
The voluntary participation of people in development programmes is something that is not always fully appreciated . 
Yet , through LEADER , there can be no doubting its effectiveness as an integral part of broader EU and national policy . 
In conclusion , while welcoming Commission approval for LEADER + , I am concerned about the time delay between the ending of LEADER II and the commencement of the new programme . 
I urge you to look seriously at this problem . 
A break in continuity will have serious consequences for the programme and certainly a disruptive effect on voluntary and professional workers . 
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , having read the Commission communication on the INTERREG III initiative , and pointing out that I took part in the vote on Mr Decourrière ' s report within the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , I should like not only to expressly reiterate our agreement in principle with the initiative as presented and , particularly in the context of INTERREG III B , with the Commission ' s recognition of activities contributing to the restoration of landscapes run down due the level of prices in the agricultural sector , a sector in which many associations , especially cynegetic , are already making enormous investments in my own country . 
I should also like to give my considered support to the comments of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , particularly and primarily in deploring the failure to integrate the most remote regions into strand A of the programme or in commenting upon the lack of precision in the selection criteria for the implementation methods for strand III C and , finally , in requesting that Members of the European Parliament should be involved in the European Observatory for cross - border , transregional and interregional cooperation . 
I should further like to express major reservations with regard to the exaggerated tendency which , in the Commission communication with reference to INTERREG III and III B , involves associating environmental protection exclusively with the development of Natura 2000 , which I think is often an excessively abstract means of safeguarding ecosystems , from which users are in danger of being excluded or severely restricted . 
Finally , if the Commission and the relevant Councils of Ministers permit , I should like to stress that the Members of the European Parliament should be given more information on the procedures relating to the implementation of the INTERREG projects and , beyond that , of similar initiatives . 
It would be even better if they were involved to a greater extent in the processes of framing and implementing the programmes concerned , otherwise it will be difficult to determine and defend their role in relation to the local and national authorities and even the citizens . 
Mr President , first of all , I would like thank the rapporteur of the EQUAL report , Mrs Stenzel , very warmly for all the efforts she has made to master this very complex subject matter on behalf of all of us . 
EQUAL is a very difficult programme because it attempts to combine so many old programmes and yet aims to view them in a different light , doing so with less money than was available in the previous funds . 
This is an arduous task . 
Only , the number of people affected by these programmes has not really dropped . 
This is why it is so hard to strike a balance , not only between the different countries or the different components , but especially between the different groups listed in the programme , and in fact this is what has preoccupied us to date . 
Comments are made here and there to the effect that one group should get more funding than another . 
I , for my part , have focused on the position of the handicapped and the elderly within the framework of the programme , and I have to say that their position could well have been overlooked altogether if it had not been for the European Parliament devoting special attention to them . 
Although a few other groups have been mentioned , it is the Member States , in particular , which are on the lookout . 
For example , I know of one Member State that would like to use a large proportion of the entire programme for one component , namely refugees . 
I would , therefore , ask the Commissioner to ensure that a balance is struck between these different groups . 
It should not be the case that one Member State , under the pretext of calling on the subsidiarity principle , can decide that all funding should go to one group . 
I think that this will have to be monitored closely because otherwise we will end up in that situation against which Mr Meijer has warned us so vehemently , to wit , that vested interests will emerge and that people will think that the money is theirs to spend . 
This is not the case ! 
It has to be redistributed time and again . It should be used for innovative projects and it should not completely disappear into the Finance Minister ' s treasury funds . 
That is not the intention and that is an important point that we need to bear in mind here . 
I believe that the remaining problems that we have faced within this Parliament , and which in large part stem from the fact that it is so difficult to strike the right balance , can be solved . 
As far as the Commission is concerned , I hope it will be able to join in the compromise that is being concluded here in this Parliament , mainly with a view to reaching a balance . 
I would just like to underline this - the situation is , of course , a little precarious - Parliament has , for the sake of convenience and safety , placed the EQUAL programme on the back burner for the time being , so that Parliament has yet to be persuaded of the way the funds are to be distributed . 
I believe that this is actually a good thing . 
The position of Parliament in this whole procedure is somewhat unclear . 
The Rules of Procedure do not shed any more light on the matter and that is exactly why this back burner is extremely useful . 
Mr President , there is no doubt that the INTERREG initiative promotes efforts to achieve economic and social cohesion in the European Union . 
However , I should like to stress INTERREG ' s particular importance for the Balkan area , where political developments and hostilities over the past few years have had major economic repercussions for neighbouring countries and especially for my own country , Greece , which is the only Member State on that long - suffering peninsula . 
For Greece , for the neighbouring countries Italy and Austria , but also for Europe as a whole , the social and economic restoration of the Balkans , bringing political stability , is a vitally important matter . 
So far , some Balkan countries have received aid from the PHARE and Obnova programmes , while others have not . 
During the new programme period , in view of enlargement and bearing in mind that funding has been provided for from new financial instruments and regulations , such as ISPA and Sapard , it is considered absolutely essential to coordinate the funding of all three strands of INTERREG with other financial aid to third countries . 
Accordingly , we welcome the related references in Chapter 7 of the European Commission ' s proposed general guidelines for INTERREG . 
The efforts to coordinate the planning and so make it more effective must extend to all the programmes equally , and I say that because in the MEDA programme during the last period some problems arose which have to be overcome , so that we can have equal treatment for all the third countries participating in that programme . 
I should like to end by saying that the planning of the new inter - state cooperation zones has taken no account of the Mediterranean ' s geographical peculiarities , which would justify the creation of a special zone for coastal and island regions . 
We therefore ask the Commission to pay special attention to the issue of maritime and island cooperation when zone planning next comes up for review . 
I end by stressing the need for the European Union to persist with such initiatives , which strive to eliminate inequalities between our regions , and to foster their harmonious development . 
And since this is St . Valentine ' s day , as a former Mayor of a regional city , I propose that we should all declare our love for all the European regions which need that love . 
