Mr President , Commissioner Fischler , rural development can and must tackle the problem from three different angles : preservation of jobs , stewardship of the countryside and , not least , local culture , because that is of the utmost importance . 
Only if the population can stay in the countryside will the quality of life in the countryside also be permanently assured . 
We can observe the consequences of migration from the countryside in several areas of the Alps and they are devastating . 
But I warn against using these programmes to take urban culture to the countryside . 
And neither should we create structures which are reliant on subsidies and which will be dependent on them forevermore . 
To really guarantee sustainability - a buzzword which has , since it gained new currency , become relatively devoid of meaning , but we all know what we mean by it - what is needed , amongst other things , is an integrated approach in the countryside towards , for example , tourism and agriculture . 
The investment needs to be visionary . 
Young , creative individuals must be made to feel an attachment to the countryside . 
If they all leave then nothing much will go on there any more . 
None of us think much of the principle of indiscriminate , all - round distribution , and the pilot projects need to act , as it were , like avalanches and trigger other similar projects . 
I would be in favour of supporting self - contained cycles of projects and , even though LEADER I and LEADER II may have had shortcomings here and there , overall they were certainly positive . 
I should like to ask that we consider granting derogations not only in the Nordic countries but also for mountainous areas - the Alps , the Pyrenees and the Sierra Nevada , from where I have just returned - in respect of population size and density . 
Mr President , I want to talk about the EQUAL report , especially the issue of the policy on refugees . 
Last week , we had a very impassioned discussion about the formation of the Austrian Government . 
Today , we are already discussing the Austrian coalition government ' s policy on refugees because Mrs Stenzel , who is the author of the EQUAL report , of course represents Austria ' s governing conservative party and its policy . 
The most startling aspect of her original report was that she wanted to limit aid to the small group of refugees covered by the Geneva Convention , that is to say so - called quota refugees or UN refugees . 
In actual fact , it is the other refugees , namely those outside the quota and those not covered by UN aid , who need aid the most . 
The Committee rejected this discriminatory proposal and decided that all refugees should have a place on the EQUAL programme on identical conditions . 
Some members of the Committee , however , supported Mrs Stenzel ' s proposal and wordings . 
As I see it , this means that Mr Haider ' s politics are already casting their shadow over this Parliament . 
It is therefore crucially important that the Chamber should be as emphatic as it possibly can be in establishing the fact that all refugees are to have a place on the EQUAL programme . 
I want , finally , to say that I had certain misgivings last week when we discussed the formation of the Austrian Government but , when it comes to discussing and criticising its policy on refugees , I have no misgivings . 
I hope that the Chamber will be just as committed this time . 
Mr President , during the last EU Financial Perspective from 1994 to 1999 , when there were 13 different initiatives in operation , the INTERREG II cross - border programme was an important initiative . 
The fact that the next round of Structural Funds 2000 - 2006 includes the INTERREG initiative is I believe , a very clear indication of the importance which is attached to it by national EU Member States . 
The INTERREG I programme between 1989 and 1993 and the INTERREG II programme between 1994 and 1999 have proved an absolute success in terms of bridging closer social and economic development between bordering Member States . 
Coming from the border counties in the north - west of Ireland , I have seen over the years the important role which INTERREG I and II have played and I am delighted to welcome INTERREG III . 
The Commission is allocating 67 million pounds towards the INTERREG III programme , which will be spent on continuing the development of cross - border economic projects between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland . 
The European Union has played a key role in developing the border county region in Ireland over the years . 
The European Union is the single largest contributor , with 80 million pounds to the International Fund for Ireland . The European Union contributes 75 % of the Peace and Reconciliation programme . 
All in all , INTERREG , the International Fund for Ireland and the Peace and Reconciliation programme have all played an important role in the developing peace process . 
Mr President , I am taking the floor to speak about INTERREG , but I shall confine myself to a few criticisms , which will clearly also enable me to keep to my speaking time . 
We have all spoken favourably of this programme ' s confirmation and of the extension of the sectors it covers to include the field of transnational and interregional cooperation , in addition to cross - border cooperation . 
However , this does not blind us to the fact that the majority of resources - 50 - 80 %  - will be reserved for cross - border cooperation , for INTERREG IIIA . Therefore , we still think the decision to consolidate the current areas of cooperation in this strand , regarding the selection of eligible regions , is wrong and contradictory . 
We hope that the Commission will want to look into this and acknowledge Parliament ' s position in practical terms , and not just with a formal tribute . 
Cross - border cooperation continues almost exclusively to be an issue concerning landlocked areas and , where exceptions have been made for maritime areas , their selection is not transparent and they often suffer from compensation from other Community policies . 
This discrimination is much more serious for islands that have a regional status that can only be linked to areas of an exclusively maritime nature . 
This is in line with ongoing discrimination , which ignores Article 158 of the Treaty on island regions with regard to cohesion policies . 
More serious still is the fact that this is occurring while ignoring the new situation associated with the approach that has been adopted towards the enlargement process for the inclusion of regions such as Malta . 
This has given rise to the proposals we are making to at least extend the regions eligible to include the NUTS III Sicilian provinces which have a frontier with Malta and to include all the regions of the Adriatic which share a frontier with Balkan regions . 
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I should like to express the satisfaction I have in noting that the most remote regions , including the French overseas departments , have received some attention in connection with the INTERREG III initiative , opening up new perspectives for their cooperation with other countries in their geographical area , even though it is true that more could have been expected , particularly with regard to access to the various strands . 
