Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I am not always proud of the fuss that goes on here in Parliament , but the URBAN programme is one of the best examples of our work : it was created following an initiative in Parliament . 
The Commission would have abolished URBAN , but this time Parliament drew the longer straw . 
It is good that URBAN is to continue , as it has had good results at local level . 
The problems in Europe ' s urban areas are getting worse ; fortunately , we now have consensus with the Commission . 
The majority of the population of Europe live in cities , and their problems are among the most pressing within the context of regional policy and very complex matters in themselves . 
There is an immense risk of exclusion . 
In many cities in France and England there are now slums , breeding grounds for many sorts of problems . 
None of us wants South American type favelas in Europe . 
We have to act now , before it is too late . 
Our cities are also of decisive importance for Europe ' s economy . 
We always come back to the same basic problem in Europe : our economy does not support the individual sufficiently , nor is it sufficiently dynamic . 
The economy has to be strong for us to be able to attend to the problems of our fellow - citizens and our environment . 
This is not policy ; it is life ' s simple logic . 
It is good that spending has become focused , as otherwise the buckshot gets scattered to the four winds . 
Now we have to concentrate on solving problems in small and middle - size towns and cities , as they do not have enough resources . 
In this way we will also be able to speed up matters in surrounding rural areas ; it is often forgotten that urban and rural problems in fact go hand in hand . 
The basis for all this is that we should be encouraging individual innovation and entrepreneurship , as group action begun by the individual will help revitalise an area internally . 
Granting funds without an economy that can stand on its own two feet is like carrying water to fill up a dry well : there will be enough to drink for a while , but tomorrow the well will be dry again . 
Mr President , with the implementation of INTERREG III , European cooperation policy is entering a new phase . 
Our attention is no longer focused exclusively on internal borders but also on external ones . 
In the context of globalisation and cultural openness which characterise the current situation , the European Union needs instruments that will allow it to strengthen its links and communication channels with neighbouring regions , particularly in Eastern and Southern Europe . 
The Union ' s borders must no longer be an obstacle to balanced development , but - on the contrary - an opportunity , a bridge to more fruitful cooperation . 
By means of amendments adopted in committee , Parliament has tried to supplement the Commission ' s work , by including new elements in the list of areas targeted for aid , and in particular external border areas and maritime border areas in Southern Europe . 
In its draft guidelines , the Commission acknowledges that these borders require greater attention than they did in the past . This is on account of the process of enlargement to the east and that of greater integration with the Mediterranean countries . 
As President Prodi too mentioned when outlining the strategic objectives for the period 2000 - 2005 , boosting the Barcelona process is a priority for the Union , and the INTERREG III initiative will be able to make its contribution to the pursuit of this strategic objective . 
In congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent work , we can but hope that the Commission will duly take into consideration the proposals Parliament has put forward , in accordance with the commitments made under the Code of Conduct on the implementation of structural policies , and that it will confirm , with fitting amendments , the transformation of this Community initiative from a mere instrument for internal redistribution to an opportunity to boost and enhance relations with neighbouring countries . 
Mr President , from this year until the year 2006 around EUR 200 billion is available for the Structural Funds , but only 5¾ % is set aside for the Community initiatives , INTERREG , LEADER , URBAN and EQUAL . 
That is a reduction of 3¾ % compared with the previous CIs . 
No more than EUR 2 . 8 billion is provided for EQUAL , as Mrs Stenzel ' s balanced report makes clear . 
This makes the large number of amendments and far too long a wish list of possible tasks all the more astonishing . 
How are priorities supposed to be set here ? 
There is agreement on the principle that marginalisation , discrimination and inequalities on the labour market should be reduced . 
Transnational strategies are intended to make it possible for disadvantaged groups to have access to jobs . 
I have no sympathy for amendments once again backing the TAOs . 
Criticism of the previous Commission ' s work was particularly severe , legitimately so , with regard to these Technical Assistance Offices . 
Our Committee on Employment and Social Affairs was , after all , in overall charge of analysing considerable shortcomings and failures to carry out checks in cases related to LEONARDO . 
The Commission cannot therefore be relieved of direct responsibility or the task of carrying out inspections under EQUAL either . 
It can only approve Member States ' proposals if they fulfil all the criteria : firstly , integration through sectoral and geographical development partnerships , whereby the employment policy guidelines need to be taken into account ; secondly , the systematic involvement of the operators concerned - the local , regional and national authorities , training institutions , universities , NGOs , the two sides of industry and the private sector - with the aim of creating a durable partnership , and thirdly , methods and models of indisputably innovative character . 
The Commission must therefore be the guarantor of the strategic framework for promoting ability to work and quality of work , of the assessment of results and of the effective communication of best practices . 
Only then will it be possible for the desired multiplier effect to be achieved . 
Mr President , I want to refer to the Commission proposals on the budget line to promote the CAP . 
On 26 October 1999 the European Commission adopted a proposal to ensure that a legal basis is given to the budget line informing the public about the CAP . 
This proposal will remove the current budget line B2 - 5122 and create a new budget heading B1 - 382 . 
Actions which promote understanding between young farmers and the EU and also create stronger links with EU candidate countries and the outside world are important . 
Therefore I am putting forward these amendments to Parliament to give its support to the contributions of this type of programme . 
Given the need to encourage young farmers to continue in farming it is vitally important that they are well - informed about developments in the common agricultural policy . 
Informing and training young farmers at European level is vitally important . 
I would ask you to support that part of the available budget should be concentrated on the development of knowledge amongst European young farmers . 
Regarding information and training , in the past this budget line has been allocated for information , communication and training . 
But the Commission is now proposing that training should no longer be included . I feel that training should be included where it provides relevant information at European level about the CAP . 
Such European training is one element in ensuring that young farmers have the necessary knowledge of the CAP to make sound business decisions for the future . 
Therefore I am putting forward three amendments . 
I would urge Parliament to support them . 
