Mr President , I am taking the floor to express my opinion , drawn from my experience of municipal administration , that the URBAN projects should , or rather must , have a threefold purpose : firstly , to promote the restoration of infrastructure and historic , old and perhaps dilapidated areas of cities . 
Secondly , to promote and stimulate economic activity and social life within these historic centres , within these old quarters of our cities . 
There is little point in having streets which are now wonderfully lit , with new pavements , with newly paved road surfaces , all whitewashed and beautiful , if we are not able to fill them with activity and , therefore , employment . 
I would like to make it clear that it is not just a question of finance or aid to the different social operators , but rather also of selecting those projects which are aimed at employment , or to put it another way , projects which will tend to favour the creation and promotion of jobs . 
Thirdly - and perhaps this should be the first objective - the projects should principally be aimed at the complete rehabilitation of people and families , because man is not made for the law , but rather law is made for man . 
These areas of our cities are often home to single - parent families , elderly people who receive a pension and no longer carry out productive activity , and families facing difficulties ; sometimes they are families which have broken down and which are excluded from mainstream society . 
These people live in areas which should benefit from these projects . 
If we have success in this threefold sense , I believe that these families , these people , these European citizens , will believe more in Europe , and this seems to me to be very important because , ultimately , the cities will increasingly come to play a leading role in European life . 
 .  ( FR ) Mr President , before my friends and fellow Commissioners , Franz Fischler and Anna Diamantopoulou , in turn come to speak - since all three of us who are responsible for these four Community initiatives have had the opportunity to follow this debate with the same interest , I would like to endeavour to speak on the subject of URBAN and INTERREG , which many of you have brought up and discussed . 
Straight away I should like to express my thanks to the rapporteurs from the committees , from all the committees , but also to the speakers for the groups and to each and every one of you for the quality of your speeches and the great interest they express with regard to these two initiatives . 
This is particularly true of what Mrs McCarthy said about URBAN . I should like to thank her not only for her work and for the report which she presented but also - and I do not see why I in turn should not say so too - for all we owe her , for all you owe her as far as this is initiative , as well as , more generally , all we owe Parliament . 
I am mindful of the fact that it was in fact the European Parliament which made the political decision and supported the continuation of this initiative for the regeneration of urban areas in difficulties , in favour of sustainable urban development , involving at the same time this integrated approach , which we value , to handle the economic , social and environmental aspects simultaneously . 
Some other points of agreement highlighted in Mrs McCarthy ' s report , the effectiveness of this instrument through the concentration of funding and a critical mass for intervention , the horizontal operation which we think more conducive to disseminating results and increasing the exchange of experience and good practice and , finally , the increasing role of local authorities in the planning and management of the programmes , on the basis of a real partnership . 
Having mentioned the fundamental points of agreement between the Commission ' s proposals and Parliament and , having stressed my great interest in hearing the various contributions , I should like to answer a few of the criticisms and a few of the suggestions which have been made , with apologies if I cannot attribute each of the questions to the speakers by name . 
I think however that you will all recognise your own comments . 
Firstly on the subject of the URBAN programme and the maximum threshold of fifty towns , which a number of you termed arbitrary . 
I can understand your concern . 
I have therefore asked my services to be willing to consider a reasonable increase in the number of towns eligible under the URBAN programme conditional upon certain guarantees , firstly on concentration - I am thinking particularly of the target areas which must have a minimum of 20 000 or , in exceptional cases , 10 000 inhabitants - and also upon the critical mass of funding : we must keep to EUR 500 per inhabitant so that the European Union action may be both effective and clear , and so that it does not resemble a sort of scattering of resources which would have no real impact either for citizens or for municipalities . 
That is my initial response to the threshold question . 
Regarding a second matter , now , relating to the additional criteria , which should be taken into consideration in selecting disadvantaged areas . Here , too , I am willing to demonstrate greater flexibility and to consider other relevant criteria in addition to the Community criteria given in point 11 of the guidance project . 
Third point : specific measures in favour of some social groups - some speakers mentioned them - women , but also immigrants and refugees , must be envisaged . 
This concern , ladies and gentlemen , lies at the very heart of our URBAN initiative , and I am willing to rewrite the text , if necessary , in order to make this message clearer yet . 
Regarding URBAN , I should like to conclude with the implementation procedure and mention , first of all , the selection procedure . 
Some speakers wanted it to be less bureaucratic , more transparent , and to avoid redundancy in terms of the projects and funding . 
Ladies and gentlemen , on this point we must make it clear : in the context of subsidiarity , the selection of zones or municipalities eligible for URBAN is primarily the responsibility of the Member States . 
As far as the Commission is concerned , it is willing to avoid any unjustified bureaucratic overload , but we cannot give up the practice of checking the relevance and quality of the proposed programmes , indeed you would be the first to criticise us if we did . 
A second observation , the time limits for the submission of programmes and the possibility of submitting a planning supplement in addition to the programmes . 
I have no objection to the idea of submitting a planning supplement jointly with the main programme . 
This cannot , however , be grounds for an extension of the original time limit . 
Let me remind you that the time limit for this programme is six months . 
This time limit , which indeed is identical to the one we granted for INTERREG and for the Objective 2 DOCUPs , should normally be adequate , I feel , for drawing up a programme , which does not mean that the projects cannot be defined at a later stage . 
With regard to URBAN , I should like to conclude with a final observation . 
One of you expressed a wish that these urban issues should not be confined to the URBAN initiative . 
I agree completely . 
I myself expressed my concern at the meeting of Ministers for regional and urban planning , a concern to which I devote myself , that in the DOCUPs and the CSFs in the planning which we are currently starting to negotiate , my concern , as I said , that , apart from the URBAN initiative , urban issues should be addressed in all the Objective 1 and Objective 2 programmes , and I believe I can express both our awareness of such issues and also our commitment to include them , beyond the scope of URBAN , in all structural fund programming . 
But , as for the future , since we must look ahead , I am extremely concerned to see how URBAN is going to be implemented in practical terms , and also to see what our experience will be and what lessons we can learn , because plainly these urban issues are going to be the focus of what may be , for future financial perspectives , a new European regional planning policy . 
I am not forgetting , and we cannot forget , that 80 % of the citizens of Europe today live in towns and that is why this URBAN instrument is extremely important . 
Let me repeat what I have said , we shall be most attentive to the inclusion of urban issues in all structural fund programming . 
I should now , Mr President , like to bring up the subject of INTERREG and to thank the rapporteur , Francis Decourrière , in the same way that I thanked Arlene McCarthy , for the quality and relevance of his work . 
He stressed a number of points , with which we may indicate our agreement , as many of you did too - the importance of this trans - European cooperation , with its three strands , cross - border , transnational , interregional ; the added value to the Community provided by INTERREG , its clarity in relation to the general framework of the structural funds , and the truly cross - border and transnational strengthening of eligible programmes and operations ; the importance of common structures and what , in discussing another debate which begins today , the Intergovernmental Conference , I termed the common European spirit which we have to strengthen , and here , with INTERREG , thanks to INTERREG , is a way to strengthen common spirit through common structures for the implementation of programmes with real financial solidarity ; the importance of partnership in guaranteeing the active participation of all the local and regional authorities concerned as well as private sector associations and economic and social partners . 
Having made these general observations , I should like to focus on your main comments with regard to INTERREG . 
The first relate to the timetable and the content of this initiative . 
You comment that these guidelines were adopted at too late a date , stressing , particularly your rapporteur , the risk that the previous programmes will be interrupted . 
It is true , I admit it , and you are well aware of the reasons , ladies and gentlemen . 
There is a delay in adopting the INTERREG guidelines in March or April 2000 . 
I accept this ; I take note of it as you do . 
I note , however , that the Member States and the regions are already actively preparing the programmes for INTERREG III and indeed the guidance project was distributed over three months ago now . 
I also note that eligibility for expenditure shall be accepted from the date that programmes are presented and I can confirm the possibility that they may be available retroactively back to 1 January , if the programme is presented before 30 April . 
So much for the first comment . 
As to the second comment : regarding the non - comprehensive list of measures eligible under strand B , I wish to inform you , to confirm , that I have asked the Commission to accept the inclusion of other specific subjects , particularly in favour of small - and medium - sized businesses and of cultural heritage , in the list of schemes eligible under strand B and that therefore this list must no longer be considered as a comprehensive one . 
Third point : interregional cooperation , the importance of strand C . The Commission shares the observations made by this House regarding the importance of strand C , interregional cooperation . 
As your rapporteur has requested , I shall send you the detailed information regarding the system for the implementation of this strand . 
Fourth observation : the European Observatory and the possible use of a technical assistance office . 
As you requested , I have decided to remove all references to the use of a technical assistance office in the text until the outcome of the debate in progress within the Commission on the service outsourcing systems . 
But , ladies and gentlemen , if we do remove every reference and any recourse to a TAO at a later date then this will have a consequence and that will be an increase in the number of officials ' jobs needed to do this work , because somebody will have to do it and I cannot keep redeploying the same staff indefinitely , at a time when our duties are increasing with the pre - accession structural instrument ( ISPA ) and in order to ensure that , the Community appropriations for which I am responsible , often in partnership or on terms of coresponsibility with Member States , are monitored better , with discipline and transparency . 
Now to the implementation of INTERREG , a subject mentioned by many of you , and the potential eligibility under strand A ,  ' cross - border cooperation '  , of schemes in the Adriatic , on behalf of Sicily or for the most remote regions , the Commission , ladies and gentlemen , understands your concerns and takes note of your requests on these various points . 
I therefore intend to amend the guidelines in order to incorporate a specific priority into the transnational strand B :  ' integrated cooperation of maritime and island regions '  , so as to cover , in what I think is an appropriate fashion the various opportunities for cooperation between these regions . 
In addition to this one overture there is a second which we have already suggested to the Member States : greater financial flexibility between strand A and strand B . Thanks to these two overtures , especially the first , I can say that the Commission is willing to examine the case of Italian regions and regions of third countries around the Adriatic in order to promote the most appropriate cooperation under INTERREG , and with other instruments too , as soon as they become available . 
I have decided , in the end , that the most remote regions , to which I attach particular importance , will be given special priority in the context of the transnational strand of INTERREG , with a cooperation strategy which will aim at improving their links with their neighbours and other Member State regions . 
I also wish to express my concern to ensure good cooperation between INTERREG and the EDF , particularly for the Caribbean and the Indian Ocean . 
All this should make it possible for us , apart from the Objective 1 appropriations and also with them , to confirm the role of ' active frontier ' of the Union . 
I adopt and wholeheartedly support this political objective that the seven most remote regions of the Union are actually active frontiers of the Union , even if , or precisely because , they are remote and located in other regions of the world where we must bring our influence and our action to bear . 
Another point : the coordination between INTERREG , PHARE , TACIS and MEDA . 
It is true , once again , and I accept this objectively , that there are still real legal problems . 
I do not want to minimise these , but progress is being made as far as strand A cooperation with candidate countries is concerned , even if the problems related to the management procedures and to the scale of the projects still remain . 
The Commission must continue along these lines . 
I am making a personal commitment to do so . 
An initial joint PHARE / CIP committee is to meet in February to assess this coordination , and let me confirm my attentiveness and availability with regard to this , together with my colleagues and fellow Commissioners Verheugen , Patten and Poul Nielson . 
Finally , on the subject of technical assistance , on which your rapporteur and several of you commented . 
It goes without saying that the Commission will adhere to the terms of Article 23 of the general regulations regarding technical assistance , if it is indeed assistance intended to be an instrument useful to structural policy in general . 
According to the general regulations , however , any technical assistance scheme which can claim a connection with a Community initiative must be proposed under Article 20 , and not Article 23 . 
This means that the ceiling of 0 . 25 % mentioned in Article 23 does not apply with regard to this type of technical assistance . 
I attach great importance , ladies and gentlemen , in a spirit of discipline and transparency , to our nonetheless retaining some financial strands for matters relating to the exchange of experience and information , and not to propaganda , and to the implementation of networks ensuring good communication of best practice within the Union . 
My conclusion regarding INTERREG , Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , is that these Community initiatives for which I am responsible fulfil a real need and everything that has been said is proof of this . 
They also foreshadow a real European regional planning policy within our enlarged Union . 
The Commission attaches the greatest importance to this , just as you yourselves do . 
I remain at your service in order , when the time comes , to present the report of previous planning which you request , but also to keep you informed regularly as to the implementation of these initiatives in the course of the new planning . 
Repeating my thanks to each and every one of you , and also particularly to Arlene McCarthy and Francis Decourrière , I should like to point out that these two initiatives lie within a financial framework with which you are familiar : only EUR 700 million for URBAN , but this is better than nothing ; EUR 4 billion 800 millions for INTERREG . 
So we are working within this framework and not outside it . 
On the subject of these two initiatives , then , with the light they cast on future strategic and political thinking regarding regional planning and on future financial perspectives , let me express our great interest in this constructive dialogue with the European Parliament and its committees . 
Everything that I have just said , ladies and gentlemen , demonstrates that the Commission is resolved to taken the views of Parliament into account . 
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , I should like firstly to thank Mr Procacci for his report . 
However , I should also like to extend thanks to the various committees involved and Parliament as a whole for the broad support which they have given the LEADER + initiative . 
This initiative should give the countryside new impetus to develop and test new and original ideas , ideas which it is then intended should at a later stage be incorporated in the general programmes as models . 
I am also pleased that Parliament essentially supports the Commission ' s view that LEADER + should be applied in all rural areas , that overriding priorities should be introduced and that , above all , active cooperation and networking between rural areas should be encouraged . 
In addition , I note that Parliament shares the Commission ' s view that the preferred form for implementing LEADER + is the use of global grants . 
Turning now to some of the individual questions raised here today , I can also confirm that we wish to have the widest possible partnership and participation in LEADER + . 
The various groups , be they environmental organisations or groups concerned with employment , have the possibility of taking part in drafting the Commission directives . 
And there will not be less funds available than in the current period either ; there will be more . 
I should also like to remind you that the idea of setting up an observatory is nothing new . 
There was also an observatory under LEADER I and LEADER II . 
It has one purpose only and that is precisely to maintain active networking between the individual LEADER groups . 
The cost of this observatory is not permitted to exceed 2 % of the LEADER budget . 
As far as the possibility of having projects containing training initiatives is concerned , I might point out that this is precisely a point which we have now integrated into the new rural development policy , which means , in our view , that it is no longer necessary to do this as part of LEADER . 
I now come to the content of the report . 
In point 14 , Parliament calls on the Commission to submit an evaluation report on LEADER II immediately . 
I should simply like to point out that this does not make very much sense at the present time because , as you know , it is still possible - and in fact will be until the end of 2001 - for LEADER II funds to be disbursed . 
We therefore think that it would be more sensible to wait until the programme ' s conclusion before carrying out the evaluation . 
We will obviously do this and will also forward a report to you on it . 
In point 18 , Parliament suggests publishing a compendium of examples of successful initiatives . 
In response I can only say that this already exists . 
It has already been compiled by the Commission and I can make a copy available to any Member of this House who is interested . 
In point 21 , Parliament stresses that the guidelines in LEADER + now need to be adopted quickly so that the programmes can start . 
I can only fully share your concern . 
As soon as the opinion is adopted here in Parliament , the guidelines for LEADER + will again be presented to the STAR Committee so that the Member States can confirm the provisional agreement which they gave on 14 November . 
I assume that the Commission will then be able to adopt the definitive version of the guidelines in March or April . 
And as soon as these are published in the Official Journal the remaining months - in fact six months - can be used to submit LEADER + programmes . 
I believe that it is important to point out one thing : expenditure effected under LEADER + is eligible from the time that the Commission programme starts running . 
For all programmes submitted before 30 April of this year it will be possible to backdate the beginning of the period of eligibility to 1 January . 
Finally , under point 20 the motion for a resolution contains seven specific proposals for amendments to the guidelines . 
Having given them thorough consideration , I can tell you that the proposals made under paragraphs 2 , 4 , 5 and 7 are acceptable to the Commission and are adopted . 
The proposal in paragraph 6 will also be partly accepted because it reaffirms that the time allowed for approving programmes under LEADER + is a maximum of 5 months . 
The amendment proposed under paragraph 1 has , in our view , been overtaken by events because , following consultations with the representatives of the Member States in the STAR Committee , this point has already been reworded along the lines proposed by Parliament . 
That therefore leaves only the amendment proposed under paragraph 3 . The Commission can only endorse this request because of course it corresponds precisely to what the Commission itself had originally proposed . 
I must add , however , that cooperation between our action groups and similar groups in third countries went too far for the Member States . 
An amendment was therefore made in the committee , but the Commission will now again take account of Parliament ' s concern in the revised version and table the guidelines in that form . 
It will also continue to fight for Member States ' acceptance of this . 
I will comment briefly on the 13 amendments tabled . 
Here there are only three which the Commission cannot accept , Amendments Nos 3 , 12 and 13 . It can accept all of the others either in full or in essence . 
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , it is an exceptionally fortunate circumstance that we are debating the EQUAL initiative in the European Parliament just at this time . 
Recently , because of political developments in Austria , there is growing unease within Europe . Political demonstrations are taking place as well as political dialogue . 
It is worth stressing that both Parliament and the Commission must put forward specific policies . 
We need specific proposals , both for legislation and for action programmes associated with the fight against discrimination and the formation of free and fair societies . 
So I will make brief mention of the package against discrimination and take this opportunity to ask the competent parliamentary committees to appoint their rapporteurs so that we can move ahead with the anti - discrimination package as soon as possible . 
I now come to the EQUAL initiative , which is , of course , based on Article 13 . 
The EQUAL initiative relates to all forms of discrimination within the meaning of Article 13 , namely the fight against discrimination based on race , gender , age , and special needs . 
I would particularly like to congratulate Mrs Stenzel , because her effort to reach agreement on the EQUAL initiative has proved exceptionally difficult and complex , both because some of the committees involved view the issue in a different light and because it is a very sensitive political issue . 
The first comment , which has been made by many others too , is whether women should be mentioned separately . 
I agree that Article 13 contains something we have expressed our disagreement about , but that is how the Treaty stands right now and among the categories of types of discrimination , discrimination on the grounds of gender holds equal place . 
So on the basis of the Treaty as it stands today , the EQUAL initiative is structured in that way . 
I would like to remind you , however , that there is a special axis for the employment strategy which relates to women and that a special programme is being prepared , the fifth programme for equality between men and women . 
I have classified the issues raised by the honourable Members into four groups . 
Firstly , the enlargement of the thematic areas . 
As in employment strategy , there are four thematic areas : employability , entrepreneurship , adaptability and equal opportunities , and we agree that those thematic areas should be enlarged in line with the European Parliament ' s proposals . 
To answer the concern whether there is a risk that a country might concentrate all the funds on one of the categories suffering discrimination , I will say that the initiative states clearly that the Member States must submit one thematic category for each group that is suffering discrimination . 
The second subject is flexibility and simplification . 
I agree with Mr Leinen that the wording of the initiative is indeed very difficult and hard to understand . 
That is why the services are already trying to revise the text , simplify its structure and make its wording easier to grasp . 
As regards the subject of flexibility , we propose development partnerships and cooperation both at the geographical level where different kinds of groups would cooperate in a specific geographical area to combat discrimination in the workplace , and at the thematic level where , for example , cooperation could take place in a specific economic sector . 
This would allow Member States great flexibility to tailor development cooperation to their own particular needs . 
Of course , a prerequisite for that is cooperation between the Member States , and a network which will assist the exchange of experience . 
Finally , I would like to mention technical assistance . 
We are trying to arrange that there will be four categories for which funding is available . First , funding for preparation ; second , implementation ; third , mutual cooperation to ensure the exchange of experience , and fourth , technical assistance . 
Since there has been great involvement and concern about how technical assistance is to be provided , we must say that external offices will be used . 
As Mr Barnier too pointed out , it is impossible for all the work previously done by external collaborators to be done now by the Commission ' s staff . 
The aim at national and European level is to establish large action groups by tender , with a full description of the project for which external assistance is to be requested . We would expect from each technical office a full description of the product so that the work can be monitored and appraised . 
I want to stress that it is extremely important to promote this specific initiative as quickly as possible , both for reasons of political timing and because we believe that it is important that it should begin as planned , in other words , we must be absolutely ready by the end of 2000 . 
Thank you , Commissioner . 
I shall convey your wish that the rapporteurs should be quickly appointed for the files you mentioned to my colleagues in the Bureau and to the appropriate committees . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon . 
 ( The sitting was closed at 8 . 40 p . m . ) 
Approval of the Minutes of the two previous sittings
The Minutes of the sittings of Thursday 3 February and Monday 14 February have been distributed . 
The Minutes of 3 February were originally distributed in Brussels so perhaps this is why some Members did not receive them . 
Are there any comments ? 
 ( The Minutes were approved ) 
Madam President , my habit is always to be here for the opening of the part - session on Monday afternoons at 5 . 00 p . m . 
Yesterday it was impossible for myself and many MEPs to be here , because the 2 . 15 p . m . Air France flight , which normally brings us here , was cancelled , with no explanation from the airline , and we therefore arrived very late . 
If Air France insists on boycotting the European Parliament , we should take measures to prevent this occurring again . 
Thank you , Mr Medina Ortega . 
I too wholeheartedly regret this situation . 
Would you be so kind as to write to me so that I have proof with which to tackle the competent authorities of both Air France and the French Government ? 
This situation really cannot continue and we must therefore protest most strongly . 
Madam President , I had the same experience as Mr Medina Ortega yesterday . 
I feel that the French authorities - which have the honour of housing the European Parliament in Strasbourg - should be aware of their responsibility to ensure adequate connections with all the capitals of the Union . 
Absolutely , Mr Napolitano . Thank you . 
Madam President , off the subject of aeroplane delays , I wish to apologise for the absence yesterday of my colleague in the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , Caroline Lucas , who is a British Member . 
She could not be here because she was arrested yesterday morning during an anti - nuclear demonstration in Glasgow . 
Although her identity was noted and her position as a Member of the European Parliament was very apparent , she was still held in custody all day . 
I regard this as absolutely unacceptable and would ask you to contact the British authorities in order to ensure that this does not happen again and that Mrs Lucas receives an apology . I have written to you in this respect together with my colleague , Mrs Hautala . 
Thank you , Mr Lannoye . 
I have received your letter and have already contacted the British Permanent Representative . 
Madam President , I should like to make a request in connection with today ' s vote which I started to make yesterday during the debate on the EQUAL report . 
I should like the vote on the Community EQUAL initiative to be postponed because we need a bit more time to negotiate an important point . 
I am optimistic and quite relaxed and confident about the vote ; we shall gain broad support for this opinion on EQUAL . 
We just need a bit more time to work out the details on the asylum question and I would therefore request that the vote be postponed from this morning . 
Madam President , to follow on from the point that Mr Lannoye made : Mrs Lucas was arrested just outside Glasgow for protesting against the Trident base at Faslane . 
I have a lot of sympathy with that protest . 
I have , however , no sympathy for Mrs Lucas trying to hide behind her Parliamentary immunity . 
I have also been arrested for protesting at Faslane . 
I did not hide behind any immunity . 
I took the punishment that came to me . 
Mrs Lucas should do the same . 
Madam President , I would like to comment on the request Mrs Stenzel has made to postpone the vote on the Community initiative EQUAL until tomorrow . 
In fact , this initiative was the subject of a very lively debate in committee , and , given that it is a major Commission proposal , which refers to the agreements we reached last year , I consider it admissible . 
We agree with Mrs Stenzel that the request to postpone the vote is admissible in the interests of achieving the greatest possible agreement between the groups , so that Parliament can express its position on this initiative with the broadest majority possible . 
Does anyone want to speak against Mrs Stenzel ' s request , as supported by Mrs Ghilardotti ? 
If not , then we will proceed to the vote . 
 ( Parliament approved the request ) 
Madam President , under Rule 29 ( 4 ) you should be kept informed by political groups of any Members who have joined a new political group or who have left a political group . 
Have you received any notification of any Members leaving the Group of the European People ' s Party or does the Austrian People ' s Party continue to sit in that political group ? 
Mr Corbett , I have not received any notification . 
Madam President , I am amazed at Mr Corbett ' s reaction . 
He should find other ways of raising his profile than expressing views on such matters here . 
We are solidly with our Austrian friends who have proven to be good Europeans in the past . 
They have our full support . 
 ( Applause ) 
Agenda
With regard to the agenda for Thursday , following a request made yesterday in plenary , I propose extending the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance by half an hour to 6 . 00 p . m . when the vote will take place . 
 ( Parliament gave its assent ) 
Commission ' s strategic objectives and legislative programme
The next item is the joint debate on the Commission statements on its strategic objectives for the coming five years and the annual legislative programme for 2000 . 
I therefore immediately give the floor to the President of the Commission , Mr Prodi . 
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , a five - year programme is an extremely important undertaking , and this is why I preferred that you be given the unabridged text of the speech , which is available in four languages . 
To respect my speaking time , I will confine myself to referring only to the broad outlines of my programme : a programme for the dawning of a new legislature and a new century , when it is right and proper to see Europe in a broader perspective , a Europe which is currently in a paradoxical situation . 
Let us remember that for half a century , Europe has provided us with peace , security and freedom and a united Europe has also contributed to giving us a period of unprecedented prosperity . 
We are now seeing the beginning of a strong recovery , which it appears may even be sustainable for a good while yet if we are prudent with our policies . This recovery is the logical consequence of the efforts we have made , but it comes at a price : it follows the restructuring of public accounts in European countries , which have kept inflation under control with a policy wisely intended to control costs and increase productivity in a Europe that has begun a vigorous restructuring of its own industries , banks and public services , even though this process is not yet complete and still has a long way to go . 
Nevertheless , despite these aspects , European citizens are disappointed and concerned : by unemployment which is not falling quickly enough ; by a Europe trailing behind in technology , and seemingly falling even further behind , and in particular a scientific sector which is starting to lag a long way behind too ; by the European institutions which appear distant and do not seem to be in step with the times , starting with the Commission itself . 
The crisis in the Commission was , in fact , a crucial point in the relationship between Europe and its citizens , and the low turnout at the European elections was a worrying indication of this . 
Even stronger still , however , is the sense of insecurity , the feeling of being unprepared in a new world that is moving forwards , a world which is completely changing , where globalisation will even end up changing our points of reference . 
This is not the first time this has happened : Europe was once confronted with a similar transformation , an explosion of its markets , a change in its points of reference and a different view of the world . 
I am referring to the sixteenth century when the discovery of America turned everything upside down . 
Some countries - such as France and Spain - managed to meet the challenge , giving rise to great nation States ; other countries - such as Italy - did not meet this challenge and lost all the headway that they had accumulated during the first part of that millennium : headway in science , technology , economic progress , defence structures and military organisation , philosophy and literature . 
Today , Europe is facing a similar challenge , and we know that , just as history has been unforgiving in the past , it will not be forgiving in the present . 
In this context of wholesale change , and in order to prevent our nation States vanishing again , in the wake of globalisation which is creating hitherto unprecedented scales and challenges , Europe needs to be economically strong , because globalisation demands unity , because every day we hear news of new agreements at world level and news of changes at European level too . 
But more vital still is a Europe that feels strong in the political arena . 
In years past , the single market and the single currency have been the pivotal point of our actions , the mainstay of European life . 
Today , the new frontiers of European integration are political frontiers : common foreign and security policy , justice and internal security , and - to a lesser extent - the crucial question of the fundamental political values on which our coexistence is based . 
The Commission has therefore adopted the strategic programme for 2000 - 2005 , a programme that was immediately sent to the European Parliament and with which you are already familiar , so I will not go into detail about it now . 
Some of you may find it lacks detail , but no political structure sets out detailed five - year programmes . 
This is the European Union , not the Soviet Union . 
Our programme highlights the major points of reference , the major areas for action : firstly , the development of new forms of governance for Europe ; secondly , extension and enlargement of the area of peace , freedom , and security ; thirdly , the launch of a new stage in the growth of the economy ; fourthly , safeguarding and improving quality of life . 
These will be our major guidelines for action over the next five years . 
With regard to the first area - new forms of governance for Europe - you already know that the Commission has undertaken to produce a White Paper and not a full legislative text since , in the light of major issues which are changing the structure of the way we interact , the Commission is first of all preparing for a debate ; we will subsequently discuss the content with you ; this will give rise to a policy document , and finally , a legislative document . 
This is an effective , transparent way to proceed and involve all the European institutions and the citizens of Europe . 
This White Paper is a response to the challenges that enlargement is forcing on us , an enlargement that is forcing us to rethink the workings of all our institutions , rethink our very policies - all our policies - and above all rethink what we must continue to do at Union level when the Member States number 25 or 30 , and what will be the best thing to do at individual State level , at regional level and at local government level . 
But it is not only enlargement that is urging us towards this rethink : as I said a few moments ago , it is also economic and political globalisation itself . 
We must govern Europe in such a way as to make us more efficient , to bring us closer to the citizens and to encourage everyone to get involved , starting with the important issue of the involvement of women . 
One of the main differences in the comparison made recently between Europe and the United States was not so much job mobility or risk capital , as women ' s involvement in economic life , an issue that has much more prominence in the United States than in Europe . 
This is a field where Europe has , nevertheless , always been in the vanguard . We therefore need to reflect on this at length and with an open mind , and all the institutions - Commission , Parliament , Council - will have to consider their own roles and their own policies . 
We shall therefore get straight back to work on this White Paper , although in order to finish it , we shall have to wait for the results of the Intergovernmental Conference , and it will therefore not be ready until spring 2001 . 
It will not be a philosophical Paper , but a practical Paper , full of focused proposals . 
We - the Commission - are the first to know that we must have a total rethink , and we shall therefore do two things : we are , and will continue to be , fully committed to internal reform , and we shall rethink our policies in detail . 
I have asked all the Commissioners - and I shall ask them once again in a still more analytical way - to pinpoint all the activities that we can forgo . 
The Commission must define what its fundamental activities are , what it must concentrate on and shed its non - essential activities , thereby freeing up new resources and ensuring a more correct and co - operative relationship with individual countries , regions and local communities . 
So we shall be freeing up new resources , but - I fear , and I want to state this before Parliament - the time will come when these new resources that we are already freeing up will , in turn , be insufficient in terms of allowing us to address our new tasks : I am thinking of enlargement , the new sector of justice and home affairs , health issues and environmental matters . 
When that time comes , when we have used up all our resources , I shall not hesitate to come here before you to request further resources , but what I am saying now is that if we are not given these necessary resources , we shall have to refuse to take on any new duties because the available resources will not be commensurate with the new tasks that we will be taking on . 
As for internal reform , you well know how committed my Commission has been to this since day one . 
I know full well that we will not be able to achieve any political objective if the Commission does not undertake vigorous and comprehensive internal reform , if it does not become more efficient , if it does not increase efficiency in all sectors , starting with the sector in which the worst backlogs have built up in the past - external aid . 
Providing aid rapidly , when it is needed , saves human lives ; in many cases providing it late is worse than not providing it at all . 
When I speak about external aid , my thoughts immediately turn to the Balkans . There is cause for hope thanks to the commitment of our workers on the ground , an extraordinary commitment given our organisational problems . 
My thoughts also turn to Bernard Kouchner ' s efforts , of the stability pact that we all vigorously support with total dedication , but I also think of new events , such as Croatia , where the situation has changed in a few weeks : the European institutions immediately opened the way to dialogue with this country and received the news knowing full well that the only way to resolve not only Bosnia ' s problems , but more particularly Serbia ' s problems is to throw a curtain of democracy around Serbia . 
This is the new element that we must help to bring to the Balkans . 
We must increase our efficiency in this area . We must reopen the Danube to boats . 
It is contradictory to offer aid to Romania and Bulgaria yet leave these countries unable to harness their greatest resource . 
We must decontaminate the river and , in view of this , over the next few days the Commissioner responsible for the environment will be putting forward specific plans to monitor this serious problem . 
We have done a lot in the Balkans : the new European Reconstruction Agency for Kosovo , the Balkans Task Force and new regulations to speed up procedures . 
Nevertheless , we definitely have to do more . 
We must liberalise trade within the region and between the region and the European Union ; we must contribute to building infrastructural links that will end its centuries - old isolation ; we must intensify efforts to build a democratic , pluralist society in these countries with institutions , public structures , police forces and a structured civil society , but , above all , we must press these countries to work together in the context of a united region , as regards both politics and the economy . 
If we do not do this , we shall have failed in our duty . 
Remember that the Marshall Plan was not effective simply because of the scale of its resources : it was even more effective because it made us Europeans work together towards a new horizon ; it gave us a fresh outlook in terms of our politics and our economy . 
This is what we need to do for the Balkans . 
Europe must prove - in the Balkans and the rest of the world - its ability to extend the area of security , peace and freedom and its ability to take a leading role on the international stage . 
We are clearly , once again , returning to enlargement , which must be put into practice in tandem with the extension of the area of security , peace and freedom . 
We have made many promises in this regard , but I believe we shall succeed in keeping our promises even though we have a very delicate path to tread . 
Indeed , enlargement , which will be with us for our five years in office and beyond - I am referring to the aspirations of applicant countries - must hinge on concrete , objective criteria , and also on reassuring public opinion in the countries involved and , to an even greater degree , public opinion in our own Member States . 
There will be friendship , calm , openness but also a certain strictness in the enlargement process . 
I repeat : we must reassure public opinion in those countries that wish to join but we need to provide public opinion in our own Member States with even greater reassurance . 
Our responsibilities do not stop at enlargement , or at the Balkans . 
There are certain other key issues : relations with Ukraine , relations with Russia , relations with neighbouring countries and more importantly , the important question of relations with the southern Mediterranean which will be a crucial point for European history , and for security and peace in Europe for future generations . 
In this regard , we have a responsibility towards the whole of Africa . 
In recent times , Africa has raised hopes and has received offers of help , but nothing tangible has yet been achieved . In recent years in Africa , we have not seen a shift from totalitarian regimes to democracy , but quite the contrary - a shift from democracy to totalitarian regimes . 
Africa is , for us , a worrying topic for discussion . We therefore have another duty at international level , which has already been proposed by the Commissioner responsible for trade : the undertaking to relaunch the Millennium Round and to take on some fundamental problems affecting the poorest countries , not just in terms of writing off debts , but also via the unilateral opening - up to trade with the poorest countries in the world , with a great deal of willingness on our part , which we had already proposed prior to Seattle but which we could not put into practice . 
We need to provide alternative answers , otherwise episodes such as those seen in Seattle will be repeated over and over and will come to hamper one of Europe ' s positive roles in history . 
All over the world , Europe ' s actions must be guided by a deep respect for the principles of freedom and respect for the rights of individuals and minorities . 
We should remember that we , the European Union , are a union of minorities : we are all a minority within Europe . 
There are concerns even within the Fifteen , concerns which may even surface again in the next decade . 
I am referring to the situation in Austria , where the Commission has remained true to its role , being duty - bound to work towards the cohesion of the Union , but also the unwavering guardian of the Treaties , ready to punish every minor breach of the principles of democracy , law and respect for minorities . 
Some people have criticised me over the congratulatory message I sent to Chancellor Schüssel . 
My message to you is : do not take the necessary and proper courtesies of form to mean that I have been less firm in the content . 
Reread the letter : The reference to the fundamental values of the Union is taken - and this is more than mere coincidence - from Article 6 of the Treaty , I repeat , Article 6 of the Treaty . 
I would also ask you whether you believe that any other European head of government has ever been reminded of these principles by the Commission when they were elected . 
This is what we wish to do : maintain our role as a supranational structure , maintain the role conferred on us by the Treaties , but also be unwavering on principles and make judgements based on facts . 
Last November , the Commission tabled a proposal for an anti - racism directive . 
I would ask the Council to adopt it swiftly and I would ask Parliament to help us with this action which will further strengthen the fundamental bases of our social cohesion . 
I will quickly conclude by mentioning the last two points of our programme : the economy and quality of life . 
I have already talked about the economy : we well know which basic ingredients will set Europe on the path towards a lasting recovery which will in turn create more jobs . 
We must continue to keep inflation under control , proceed with liberalisation , ensure more competition , encourage the dissemination of information technology and all new technologies ; push forward with science , and push back scientific boundaries , and develop an appetite for being at the cutting edge of science . 
The forthcoming Lisbon Summit on these issues - dissemination of technology , employment - will be a decisive summit . 
It has taken four years for us to be in a position to hold a summit of this kind . 
We are at last holding it and cannot let this opportunity slip through our fingers . 
Finally , our last commitment is to improve quality of life . 
We have opened this chapter with the White Paper on Food Safety : we now need to make significant headway in the environment sector . 
The Erika oil slick and the contamination of the Danube demonstrates the pressing need for European scale intervention to safeguard the environment . 
The time has come to discuss , and then establish , a body for emergency civil protection in Europe . 
All too often we find ourselves calling for this after a disaster has occurred . 
I think it would be appropriate to begin thinking about these things before disasters happen . 
These are the challenges that we - the Commission but also all the other European institutions - are facing . 
How will we judge , ladies and gentlemen , Madam President , the five years of our mandate ? 
How are we going to assess the results of these five years ? 
I do not know , but one benchmark we could certainly use is the challenge we must take up together . 
Let us take a very simple parameter : turnout at the next European elections . 
If it is higher than at the previous elections , it will mean that we have successfully met our challenge . 
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , we are faced with all these major political challenges , but precisely because of the recovery that is now underway , we are also faced with major opportunities . 
This , ladies and gentlemen , could be the decade of Europe . 
Indeed , I would say that this must be the decade of Europe . 
Madam President , Mr President of the Commission , the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats welcomes this debate and we welcome the fact that the Commission submitted a document so that we could prepare for the debate . 
We also welcome the conclusions which we find in this document . 
And we welcome the broad outlines of the speech which President Prodi has just given . 
We read in the conclusions in the document that the five - year term of office of the Prodi Commission will be a time of major changes . 
Europe will press ahead with integration ; at the same time the Union will start an enlargement process which will , in the end , reunite our continent . 
A demanding , ambitious , perhaps even prophetic task and we wish you every success , Mr President of the Commission . 
However , we consider that the present is the basis of the future and we shall only be able to shape the future if we prove our worth in the present . 
I say that in all earnestness and I have chosen my words carefully . 
I refer to the current debate on the present conflicts in the European Union . 
We in the European Union are one Community . 
We belong together , even when there are problems . 
Now is not the time to isolate but to unite and to complete together the task of unifying Europe . 
Mr President of the Commission , you have represented and defended the European Parliament time and again over recent weeks . 
You have seen yourself as the guardian of the Treaties , and that is indeed your role . 
For that and for the letter to the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria which you mentioned , we expressly respect , acknowledge and support you . 
 ( Applause ) 
Mr President of the Commission , our objectives are one and the same : we want a strong Europe in the twenty - first century , a democratic Europe which is able to act . 
A Europe which defends its values of human dignity and democratic rule of law both internally and to the outside world and , at the same time , looks after its global interests with dignity , patience and convincing self - confidence . 
Europe ' s message , the European Union ' s message to the world should not be one of arrogance or even European nationalism , no ; it must be one of cooperation , partnership and peaceful development . 
Globalisation gives us the chance to shape the world , which is becoming smaller and smaller , as a world of peaceful competition and solidarity . 
Seen in this light , globalisation is more of an opportunity than a danger , more of a coming together than a segregation , more mutual enrichment than separation . 
But we also know that we can only shape the huge challenge of globalisation together as Europeans . 
Globalisation is not only an economic process , it is also a cultural process , which is why we say : we want partnership in the world , we do not want the clash of civilisations which many are predicting , we want partnership , a meeting , exchange and peace . 
But we also say : we want to defend this European Community of tolerance , which is why a common foreign , security and defence policy is so important . 
Negotiations with six central European countries are starting today , bringing the European family a step closer together . 
We agree with what you said about the Barcelona process . All the countries in the Mediterranean area must acknowledge human dignity , democracy and the rule of law . 
For us , the Group of the European People ' s Party and the European Democrats , it is not only the reform of the institutions of the European Union which will be important in the next five years ; it is also important that we declare our faith in the single European currency and use the policy of stability as a basis for consolidating the European currency in coming years . 
We therefore take the uncompromising view that we must maintain a resolute and consistent stability pact . 
We need structural reforms in the European economy . 
Most importantly , we need to restore a European economy in which performance pays and people can work as entrepreneurs . 
It would be Europe ' s undoing if we were to end up with just a few multinationals and no future for small and medium - sized businesses in Europe . 
 ( Applause ) The Commission has an important role to play here by getting a coordinated policy under way with the nation states to reduce taxes so that entrepreneurship pays . 
We too want to help put Europe on its feet . 
You spoke in your paper of decentralisation and subsidiarity . 
We support that . 
The nations , regions , towns and communities of Europe will be preserved . 
However , there is a current trend - the " fauna , flora , habitat " directive was quoted as an example - which , in my country at least , creates the impression that associations are bypassing national and regional institutions and submitting programmes to Brussels and that Brussels is then making decisions affecting the property of countless agricultural holdings in the countries of the European Union . 
I merely mention it as an example of where we must take care and where I would recommend that we try to achieve more legal security in the future . 
Mr President of the Commission , allow me to close with these words : as the Group of the European People ' s Party and the European Democrats , we have every interest in a strong Commission . 
If you are persuasive in your actions , we all reap the benefits . 
In this respect we wish you every success . However , we are also aware of our role as the Commission ' s watchdog . 
If we have the merest suspicion that you are failing to safeguard the law of the European Union , and at present we have no cause for complaint - on the contrary we acknowledge that this is not the case - , but if European law is infringed then we shall fight any such infringement uncompromisingly , precisely because peace in the European Union is founded on this law . 
We must preserve this law and peace in the European Union if we are to be able to go forth as peacemakers in the world . 
 ( Applause ) 
Madam President , Mr President of the Commission , ladies and gentlemen , first of all I would like to welcome the presentation of , and the first ever debate on , the Commission ' s programme for government - the word President Prodi is so fond of ; as I am - for the whole legislature . 
Firstly , this is welcome because it explains , to our fellow citizens , what we are intending to do and what we are already doing . We must also express our regret at the current situation and try to improve on it for the future . 
We have taken almost eleven months - President Prodi was nominated at the Berlin Summit in March last year - to establish a legislative programme . This is not entirely President Prodi ' s fault . 
We are recovering from a crisis . However , I believe that , in the future , it would be appropriate for the investiture of the next Commission to coincide with the presentation of a legislative programme . 
We are breaking new ground and doing so in complex circumstances . 
President Prodi began his speech by talking of a paradoxical situation , a paradox in the European Union and also throughout the world : we are at the dawn of a new secular millennium , dominated by the web of the Internet and the sorcery of biotechnological advance , and we are living through a genuine change of epoch . However , to focus on the European Union as it is today , and on the subject of government and governance - a word which , at least in Spanish , brings to mind the previous name of the Ministry of Internal Affairs , although it may be an appropriate word anyway - , the most important thing is that the European Union be provided with a good government , and , since President Prodi always defends his home town , Bologna , I would advise him to go to Siena for a while and see something which we all understand : the frescos of Ambrogio Lorenzetti , which speak of bon governo [ good government ] and mal governo [ bad government ] . 
What we need here is good government , Madam President . 
Since we are recovering from a very complex crisis , we must try to enhance our institutions and give them substance . 
I would like to remind the House of something which we often forget , and that is that the investiture of the Prodi Commission , last September , received wide support . In our opinion , this demonstrates that the majority of us are in favour of progress and in favour of Europe . 
I would like to point out that , within this broad consensus , there were some Groups which said that the majority of Parliament should form an opposition to the majority of the Council . 
It is precisely this which , in a sense , is hindering the important process of developing codecision within the legislative programme . 
I am pointing this out because I believe that our support for the Commission also has to lead to continuity in the work carried out throughout the legislature . 
On the other hand , we are witnessing the birth of a political Europe , which entails a collection of shared values which we all agree upon , and a European Union at the service of the citizens . 
With regard to the events of recent days , I would like to say - and I am saying this on the day , and the week , that the Intergovernmental Conference is starting - we have to place far more value and fundamental emphasis upon the charter on fundamental rights which , given what we have said about the Austrian crisis , I believe should be fully included in the Treaties . 
I have absolutely no doubt about this and I believe it is an essential point . 
In this regard , Madam President , I would like to say that we should remain aware and watch our language . 
Last week , the new Minister for Finance of the Austrian coalition described the Austrian Parliament as a farce and a theatre . 
Those of us who have had to live under a dictatorship know of the existence of dictatorships with cardboard governments . 
There can be no democracy without a living parliament . 
I believe that this type of language is extremely dangerous and I would like to condemn it here and now . 
With regard to the four great priorities which President Prodi systematically refers to and with regard to his analysis of the challenges facing us , I would say that we are very much in agreement . 
Nevertheless , I would point out to the Commission that , as far as the Socialist Group is concerned , there has been a change of priorities . 
We understand that the first priority is the economic and social agenda , which also includes what is known as ' quality of life ' priorities , that is to say , the rights of citizens as consumers and as people , in relation to those questions which we always talk about , but never give sufficient priority to , that is , the European social model and its adaptation to the new circumstances , consumer rights , respect for the environment and sustainable development . 
When speaking of the commitment to full employment , we have to bear in mind that , these days , full employment does not mean what it meant in the era of Beveridge at the end of the Second World War , that is to say , employment for the male head of the household . 
We must argue for equality of the sexes , the famous ' gender mainstreaming '  , which is one of the least developed questions in the Prodi Commission ' s programme . 
This means prioritising sex equality , the adaptation of the social model and , above all , an unequivocal fight against populism whenever our economic and social cohesion is under threat . 
This must also be a main priority in the work of the Commission . 
It must be complemented with a forthright fight against racism and intolerance so that we may come to recognise , in practice , the evolution of a Union which has become a magnet for the rest of the world and an immigration zone , given its prosperity and seasonal demographics . 
I believe that this is the first objective for us to pursue . 
In this respect I would also add another element , which is economic government , given the single currency , and I believe this is inescapable . 
This is another question on which the Commission must make progress . 
With regard to the ambitious objectives and , above all , the Commission ' s important step of adopting this broadening of the process of negotiation and integration , I would like - and my Group would like - more clarification in relation to the revision of Agenda 2000 . 
Does the Commission think that there will be never be any revision ? 
The issue of taxation also seems to us to be absolutely essential . 
With regard to governance in general , I believe it might be worth thinking in theoretical terms . 
I would like to remind you of one thing : it is dangerous to rethink the entire governance of the European Union from here . 
I would be clearly in favour of subsidiarity . 
If we are capable of defining what our area of governance is , I think that would be very positive . 
In all other areas , I believe that subsidiarity is also relevant to this discussion . 
Not only should the Commission discuss this , but also our states , our parliaments and our civil society . 
Madam President , I would like to refer briefly to the last objective , which seems to us to be absolutely fundamental : the stabilisation of the continent and the strengthening of the Europe ' s role in the world . 
It appears that there is agreement and support with regard to the prioritisation of South - East Europe , with regard to enlargement and - as I have said already - with regard to the process of integration and the strengthening of the Euro - Mediterranean programme and our ability to prevent conflicts , as well as an issue which we seldom talk about ; the North - South challenge . 
We must not forget Africa , a continent which has been forsaken , not only by God , but also by Europe , nor our important contribution to cooperating with development . 
Lastly , an issue for which we are increasingly responsible , as the world ' s foremost economic and commercial power , that is , Europe ' s voice in the world , which does not simply mean adopting an active approach to the Millennium Round . 
It means the reform of the United Nations and the international financial institutions , for which Europe has an enormous responsibility . 
Above all , Madam President - and here I will end - we must be able to express this in plain language , clearly , by changing to some extent the jargon which we use , because we cannot ask the Europeans , who are living through profound changes , to take part and show enthusiasm towards us if we continue to use a form of language which they find completely inaccessible . 
This is a fundamental way to increase and strengthen their confidence in us . I hope this will be demonstrated when we hold the next European elections . 
Mr President of the Commission , may I say to you on behalf of my group that we very much support the point of departure , the core of the analysis and the strategy that you bring to this House today : that is that the stakes now are irrefutably political . 
They are political because we are moving on . 
Even though we have not yet finished constructing all the economic building blocks , we are moving on from that kind of functionalist building of Europe to a much more challenging political perspective . 
The challenge of enlargement is political . 
The challenge of creating an area of justice and home affairs , of dealing with asylum and immigration and crime , is very political . 
The challenge of a common foreign security and defence policy is very political . 
Because it is political it is more complex . Because it is political it is more sovereignty - sensitive . 
Because it is more sovereignty - sensitive it is more voter - and citizen - sensitive . 
We need , therefore , to find a way forward towards these political ends and objectives , to address , not merely the scepticism but the greatest enemy , the apathy which you identify . 
The means of achieving this are difficult but they are real . 
I applaud your view that we need more synergy between our institutions , not just between Commission and Parliament , but also between these and the Council to underscore the extent of the political challenge . 
We need more dialogue , not just with each other but also with civil society . 
We need more explanation of what Europe is about . 
We need to be able to confront fears and anxieties , because in many instances the greatest fear is fear itself . 
Perhaps with more dialogue and explanation we can overcome some of that . 
My group is especially attracted to the creative possibilities you signal in regard to the prospect of a White Paper next spring addressing the issue of governance . 
As we look at the Europe of networking which you describe , it is very important that Europe concentrates on its core business , that we have the courage to suggest areas where Europe may perhaps stand back . 
That could convince people that Europe , in its governance , is not something run exclusively from Brussels , which concentrates and soaks up more powers , more decisions , more authority . 
That is the political core of the challenge and I think you have identified it well before this House today . 
For my group , enlargement is the first priority against which all the other possibilities for reform must be measured , be they governance , be they the intergovernmental conference , be they reform of the institutions . 
We see enlargement as a process of partnership , not a process of " them and us " . 
We see enlargement as a positive sum gain for member and candidate states . 
I suggest to the Commission , as a repository of an enormous amount of detailed information on enlargement , to present a document , that explains the value of enlargement , not just in budgetary and financial terms but in a broader sense ; a document , like the Cecchini report before the Single Act , that explains to people in a way which engages them in the debate that this is the grand , historic challenge facing Europe today . 
We need to be able to prepare that ground carefully . 
On south - eastern Europe , I agree with your view that we measure political institutions through their achievements . 
In the lifetime of this Commission and this Parliament we must succeed in the task of winning the difficult and uneasy peace in south - eastern Europe . 
We applaud the stabilisation and association agreements , but we would like to see more . 
We will publish this material and bring it forward in the debate on the Swoboda report later this week . 
The strategic paper emphasises the global role of the European Union . 
Our central aim must be to give the Union a weight in global affairs commensurate with its weight in terms of aid , trade and finance . 
At the beginning of this decade we must foresee how our institutions will develop internationally by its end , and notably where we fit into international monetary bodies , where we fit into UN agencies and so on . 
We need to open that debate . 
In conclusion , this morning , the day after St Valentine ' s Day , the newspapers are saying that your honeymoon period is over . 
I do not know whether you are a romantic or not , Mr Prodi . 
Perhaps this is a very unromantic thing to say on such a morning . 
However , we in the Liberal Group welcome this because it means we are now settling down to business . 
That is the way it should be . 
Regarding the many adjectival descriptions of Europe you addressed in your speech - an energetic Europe , an enterprising Europe , a Europe that has a human face and is inclusive - let me , in a word dear to the heart of my Liberal colleagues , give in one adjective , one description of the kind of Europe we want to see in your plan for governance : an enabling Europe . 
