Mr President , Commissioner , I should like to remind you of the composition of our food chain and how important it is for this chain to provide us with safe , healthy food which is produced , as a matter of principle , without any questionable or risky interim or end products . 
Over recent years , these basic principles have often been neglected in animal husbandry and in epidemiological matters because of shoddy practice or greed . 
The European Parliament has already taken a clear stand on BSE and I think that we should do likewise on all epidemics in animals . 
We should not allow food safety to be compromised because , in the final analysis , it is our health which is at stake . 
The Commission ' s proposal encompasses both the transportation and the placing on the market of sheep and goats and a Community regulation to fight scrapie . 
This is even more important given that there is no clear proof that BSE and scrapie are unrelated . 
Animals are bought throughout Europe and transported over the entire continent . 
The spread of an epidemic as the result of bringing in one sick animal can have huge consequences for farmers . 
And I should point out that , for the first time in history , a case of scrapie was detected in Austria about four weeks ago . 
Scrapie is a particularly insidious disease because the pathogen can remain active in dust for years and is then ingested in food . 
The disease is always fatal . 
As there is no vaccination , farmers can only protect themselves by not buying animals from countries in which there are cases of scrapie . 
Even if scrapie cannot be passed on to human beings , the connection with BSE has still not been clarified , as I have already said . 
As a farmer myself , I am most concerned that consumer health should not be put at risk . 
I am in favour of preventive measures , starting with feeding which is suitable for the species , rather than measures to combat an epidemic once it has broken out . 
I therefore welcome the Commission ' s initiative to create a new legal base for combating scrapie . 
