Mr President , Commissioner , Mr Böge ' s report on measures to prevent TSE diseases is based on the proposals of the European Parliament ' s temporary BSE Committee . 
Mr Böge was responsible for some invaluable work on this committee , and it is a relief to see that the job of monitoring the work of the BSE Committee in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has fallen to him : he is the one with the experience . 
I would have liked my speech to be part of a discussion that would have also treated the second part of the Commission ' s proposal . 
I do not think it appropriate to have to conduct in part the same discussion when Mrs Roth - Behrendt ' s report from the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy is featured in the plenary session . 
In the previous speech Mrs Schierhuber said that scrapies is an insidious disease . 
It is indeed . 
For me as a Finn , and a member who has been active in matters concerning agriculture and the health and transportation of animals , it is most important that those EU states where TSEs do not occur at all will in the future too be guaranteed the right to inspect as fully as is necessary the transportation of live animals . 
I wish to stress how important it is for us to remain free of disease . 
The possibility , if necessary , of having additional inspections of animals in these areas is not a question of artificial protectionism or the restriction of freedom of movement , as there really is justification for it . 
The inspections must be seen as being fair and cost - effective action to promote the wellbeing of animals and prevent increased expenditure for the EU . 
On behalf of the European Liberal Democrats , we can support the Commission ' s proposal on Mr Böge ' s report , but in the forthcoming debate on Mrs Roth - Behrendt ' s report we must look again at the position of those countries where TSEs do not occur . 
Mr President , I too would like to offer my congratulations to the rapporteur . 
There is no doubt that Mr Böge and the rapporteur for the Committee on the Environment are now tremendous experts in this field . 
It is very good that they are continuing to monitor this issue on behalf of Parliament because it is extremely important . 
Regardless of the many other concerns we may have , BSE has given us a terrible legacy that has to be dealt with and resolved . 
It is quite clear that the incidence of scrapie in sheep has been a contributing factor to the overall problem . 
I welcome the legal base being set and the comprehensive way the new rules will , I hope , address this situation . 
We must ensure that nothing can enter the food chain or the animal compound feed to allow what we have experienced in the past to happen again in the future . 
No - one would want to see what happened to farmers with BSE happen ever again . 
We have to bring in the most stringent rules and we have to make them work . 
It is extremely important both for the producer and the consumer that we restore confidence and the only way we can do it is by rigorously tackling the problem and resolving it . 
BSE has certainly not gone away . 
You can see it in different countries . 
I do not want to point the finger at any particular country , but many countries are now facing similar problems to those we have had in the United Kingdom . 
It will be there for some time to come . 
We have to ensure that the whole system of traceability , of following the animal from birth until slaughter and right through the whole food chain , is part of that confidence - building mechanism . 
If we are not able to achieve that then we will have tremendous trouble in the future . 
Finally , I have certainly believed for a long time , coming from an agricultural background myself , that if we had fed the animals the proper food and if the animal feedstuffs had been made up of the proper compounds we would never have had BSE in the first place . 
It was never the responsibility of the farmer , it was the food compounders who caused this problem and we have to ensure that it never happens again . 
 . 
Mr President , I am pleased to have been given this opportunity to discuss a subject where there is good cooperation between Parliament and the Commission , namely combating TSEs . 
I should also like to thank Mr Böge for his work on this issue . 
Considerable progress has been made on our proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation under Article 152 of the Treaty on the prevention and control of TSEs . 
This proposal addresses all TSE risk in all animals at all stages of the production chain . 
I am here today to listen to your opinions on the first step in this process of establishing a truly comprehensive Community system for the control of these diseases . 
I have proposed in the proposal at hand to delete all currently existing Community rules on scrapie in sheep and goats and to transpose them to the framework proposal for a regulation . The detailed rules would then follow in that framework proposal . 
I have been informed that you welcome this initiative , as appears from your contributions this afternoon , to formulate a single text . 
I am looking forward to discussing any further improvements you might wish to suggest under the framework proposal for the legislation , especially after the reference made by Mrs Roth - Behrendt to her own report and opinion on this issue . 
I look forward to receipt of that document , which will be taken into account in all further considerations in relation to this issue . 
Finally , I would say this in relation to the observation about including legislation in annexes and the observation that we must achieve an effective balance between Parliament having a full say and yet at the same time our having speedy resolutions , speedy legislation and speedy amendments to existing legislation . 
In the months I have been Commissioner and observed the way legislation goes through the system , I can see that much work needs to be done on this issue so that we can all achieve what we seek to achieve , that is , the translation of policy into legislation . 
Thank you , Commissioner . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 . 30 a . m . 
Community policy in the field of water
The next item is the recommendation for second reading ( A5 - 0027 / 2000 ) on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to the adoption of a European Parliament and Council directive on establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy ( 9085 / 3 / 1999 - C5 - 0209 / 1999 - 1997 / 0067 ( COD ) )  ( Rapporteur : Mrs Lienemann ) . 
 -  ( FR ) Mr President , Commissioners , ladies and gentlemen , water will be one of the main environmental and world issues of the twenty - first century . 
Climate change , global resources , river quality and groundwater aquifer quality are major challenges which threaten our common future . 
We will either be able to restore water quality to suit the planet ' s ecosystem or we will experience a whole range of adverse events which will threaten the development of certain regions , the living conditions of the inhabitants of other regions and even , more fundamentally , the global balance . 
To support this statement , I would point to an excellent report drafted by our colleague , Mário Soares , in the international bodies on the state of the seas and oceans . 
When talking about climate change , we have rightly referred to the greenhouse effect and the state of the atmosphere . 
Yet we also know that the deterioration of the oceans will significantly destabilise whole areas of our planet . 
Europe must therefore lead by example to some extent , both because it must promote a certain development model and because it is itself facing serious problems of pollution and deterioration of its waters , including its groundwater , surface waters and seas . 
Furthermore , Europe has signed international conventions , in particular the OSPAR Convention in which it made certain commitments . 
In this it said that in a few years ' time we must have stopped dumping pollution and halted the increase of pollution and we must have reached a near zero level of toxic and dangerous substances . 
Despite having signed these international agreements , this directive and the specific policies in the field reveal that Europe cannot achieve the objectives set or must defer these for so long that the very credibility of its signature of these international conventions is threatened . 
This is why in the debate on the framework directive on water policy , the European Parliament has since the first reading demanded coherence between the framework directive and the international objectives , particularly with regard to respect for OSPAR . This convergence must be effective and specific and must commit us to action . 
The European Union ' s water policy is not starting from zero . 
Many directives have already been adopted . Furthermore , the Commission wants to make these directives more understandable and more compatible with each other and to give them clearer objectives . 
The preparation of this framework directive is therefore prompted by a desire for rationalisation . 
However , at first reading this House insisted that the current directive should not only be compatible with the commitments made , like OSPAR , but should allow us to reverse the course of affairs . 
For despite these directives and frequent declarations about the effort which must be made in terms of water protection , when we look at the state of the environment in Europe we can see that the objectives have not been achieved . 
In many cases the situation has deteriorated and we therefore cannot settle for just rationalisation of the texts . 
We must set objectives which are equal to the challenges facing us . 
Yet we do not have much time . 
We could , as the Commission has proposed , accept these overlong deadlines which the Commission and the Council have extended even further . Yet if we do , we will not only have a credibility problem with the general public , but these efforts will be postponed until tomorrow and then tomorrow they will be deferred again . 
It is clear that in this event the objectives will never be achieved . 
I am stressing this point because , when disasters are being reported daily in the news , we cannot just keep on saying for the umpteenth time that Europe did not act when it should have done . 
Then , in our haste , we act as if we will solve the problems which we refused to tackle properly at the appropriate time . 
The current example of the Danube and the pollution from Rumania shows very clearly that if we fail to establish a new method of economic development , clear requirements , controls and precise measures concerning the state of our rivers , this type of incident will not only occur again but will do so increasingly over time . 
It is also clear that if we do nothing , our agriculture will continue to develop in a very unbalanced manner . 
Even now , the rivers in Brittany are eutrophying and this is damaging tourism . 
To conclude , the issues are clear at this second reading . 
Do we or do we not want standards compatible with OSPAR , in other words to get dangerous substances down to zero ? 
Do we want to shorten the deadlines proposed by the Council for this directive ? 
Do we want to have a pricing policy which enables all public and private participants to clean up and save water ? 
Do we seriously want to respond to the hopes of our peoples ? 
The majority of the amendments approved by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection meet these objectives . I hope they will be supported by this House . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , Mrs Lienemann has just painted a very drastic picture of how important water and air are to us , especially as the very source of life for human beings . 
The problem is one of both water quality and water resources , of which there is not a plentiful supply everywhere in Europe , especially in very dry regions . 
I am sorry that Commissioner Wallström , who is responsible in this area , cannot be here now because this is , after all , a very , very important directive on which the Commission has been working for a long time , and water protection legislation , which we are debating now at second reading , affects all the citizens of the European Union as well as all the people in countries wishing to join , who will have to comply with EU legislation once they accede . 
We have been working on this subject for ten years and a comprehensive approach was only made possible as the result of a hearing arranged and held by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy in 1994 . 
A great deal of work has been carried out between then and this second reading by numerous Members of the European Parliament , the European Commission and the Council of Ministers . 
We reduced the 243 proposed amendments in the Environment Committee to 77 , but another 30 have been added . 
You see , there are numerous matters of concern here and they are all very different . Some want tighter legislation , some want more clarification , others want to serve national interests . 
Even within my group , the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , there were , of course , differences of opinion . 
Our line is to work towards realistic objectives and practicable solutions . 
In this sense , the proposed amendments tabled by me and other members on behalf of the group represent an improvement on the demands set out in the common position . 
Some proposed amendments which we support should strengthen the European Parliament ' s negotiating position in the forthcoming conciliation with the Council of Ministers . 
We obviously reject all unrealistic demands which affect the European Parliament ' s credibility . 
For me , that includes the zero demand , i . e . the demand for zero inputs up to 2020 . 
That would sound the death knell for every agricultural and many industrial undertakings . 
I should like to stress quite particularly here that we have already made considerable progress under current national and European water protection laws , however imperfect they are and however little they are complied with in the Member States . 
I only need to remind you that we again have salmon in the Rhine , which would have been unthinkable 20 years ago and that salmon are due to be released this spring in the Elbe , which was particularly polluted . 
That does not mean that we do not still have huge efforts to make in order to improve water protection yet further and maintain the quality of water and ground water and this will doubtless cost a great deal of money . 
Farmers have voiced a number of concerns over the past few days . 
You can only farm if you have an adequate supply of clean water . 
The line followed by our group for the negotiations with the Council of Ministers will allow an acceptable solution to be found for farmers too . 
I am horrified that both Members of Parliament and the public have been misled by false arguments in this difficult and sometimes highly technical matter . 
I therefore extend my special thanks to my colleagues in the group who helped us find compromises . 
I also extend my special thanks to our rapporteur , Mrs Lienemann , for all her work and her cooperative attitude , even if we have agreed to differ on certain points . 
And I also thank the representatives of the European Commission , who stood by with advice and expert help at all times . 
If the representatives of the Council of Ministers take an equally constructive approach , then I have no doubt that together we shall find an even better solution to the problem of water protection in Europe under the conciliation procedure . 
Mr President , I would firstly like to congratulate Mrs Lienemann on the excellent work which she has presented and on her efforts in terms of overcoming the differences between us with regard to water . 
The framework directive on water is a necessary initiative . 
Nevertheless , given that the idea of solidarity is central to the process of European construction , this directive must take into account the fact that water resources should be seen as a factor in social cohesion . 
Nobody doubts that water is a resource of interest to all of us . 
However , in Spain and the other southern countries , which have an unusual climate , the management of water resources require political action in order to rationalise their use and other cooperative measures . 
Therefore , we believe that this framework directive should advocate a use of water which allows us to overcome territorial imbalances and , to this end , I ask that you support Amendment No 95 , which has been presented by our group . We wish to ensure that Article 1 of the directive promotes the sustainable , efficient , fair and considerate use of water . 
I am now going to briefly discuss the main issues on which the Spanish Socialist delegation differs somewhat from certain positions which have been expressed here . 
One example is water transfers . 
We would prefer the future framework directive not to subject the implementation of transfers to Community supervision . 
We consider that , given the hydrological characteristics of Spain , where transfers of a structural nature are carried out , the authorities of the country should make decisions with regard to its own resources , and these decisions should , of course , always be taken in accordance with the quest for cohesion and the rational use of water . 
With regard to one of the most controversial points of our debate , the application of tariffs , the Spanish Socialists have been arguing , in accordance with the principle that the polluter should pay , that the directive should propose policies on accessible prices for all levels of consumption . 
In Spain , a policy of full recuperation of water costs would clearly not have the same effect as in the countries of the centre and north of Europe . 
The Spanish would see an increase in the price of water for its different uses , owing to the scarcity of water resources and the internalisation of the environmental costs which will have to be met within the framework of the provisions of the directive . 
We have therefore always argued for a progressive system of recuperation of costs . This system should take good account of social , environmental and economic effects , and its implementation should be modulated in accordance with differing geographical and climatic conditions . 
We want to build a Europe with a sustainable and healthy environment . 
However , an environmental Europe cannot , in any circumstances , be built at different speeds , but must be built from a point of view of solidarity . 
Mr President , the ecological disaster in the Danube reminds us of how closely linked all the countries of Europe are and how important water is to us all . 
Discharges from chemical factories in my own constituency in the north - west of England will end up on the beaches of mainland Europe . 
This brings home the connections which bind us together . 
This framework directive is intended to paint the broad brushstrokes of the policy for the next decades and there has been much panic over the details . 
It is important for us to remember that this is a framework . 
These brushstrokes are indeed very broad . 
It is easy for individual countries , for individual sectors of industry , to escape the effects which have been painted to us in recent days . 
There are many opportunities to hide . 
The reality is that the details of this legislation will be set out in daughter directives in months and years to come . 
That is the time to debate some of these problems of detail . 
The broad principles are surely ones we should be able to accept - the broad principles that we wish to reduce hazardous waste leaking into the groundwater , the broad principles that we should be aiming to ensure that chemicals , which we all need in society in all circumstances , should not be finding their way into our water system . 
There is a chemical factory in the north - west which wrote to me to say that we must vote against this legislation . 
I would have to ask them what chemicals they are putting into the water supply at the moment and why they are not broadcasting to all the residents in that area exactly what they are doing . 
This is something that they prefer to avoid doing . 
The principle also concerns water charging . 
The basic understanding which many of us now share is that we need to introduce environmental taxation to encourage conservation , to use the carrot - and - stick approach to make best use of our assets so that we do not add to the pollution or loss of a valuable resource like water . 
I want to refer to the political position here . 
The common position has weakened the stand taken by Parliament at first reading . 
Some of the NGOs would say that the directive as now framed is worse than useless . It is a retrograde step . 
This is an opportunity for us to improve the situation . 
We need to get ourselves into a position of conciliation . 
We have seen vote after vote lost . 
Measure after measure has come out of the Environment Committee . We have failed to achieve a qualified majority . 
Our attempt to improve the environment of Europe has failed . 
We need to get into that conciliation position . 
We need , at the end of the day , to ensure that we end up with a sensible , balanced policy of real improvements at a reasonable cost . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , as long as nearly thirty years ago , the European Commission made attempts to draw up a European water policy . 
A hundred and twenty - nine chemical substances had to be regulated . 
Eventually , standards were drawn up for only a dozen or so substances . 
The unanimity principle was at the root of this debacle . 
Some seven years ago , it still looked like the European water policy was going to be sacrificed on the altar of subsidiarity . 
The conservative government leaders Messrs Major and Kohl decided in a cosy fireside chat at the Edinburgh Summit that it was totally unnecessary for the Spanish to receive drinking water supplies which were as good as those of the Germans or English . 
This sentiment is partly reflected in the common position which came about under British Socialist Presidency . 
That position is like holey cheese , or to keep it the sphere of water , as leaky as a sieve . 
It explains the ground swell of amendments which were tabled by the Committee on the Environment : nearly one hundred amendments for the second reading . 
This is unusual , but most of these amendments are desperately needed to plug the holes . 
The dangerous chemical substances constitute a big leak . 
The chemical industry and , unfortunately , the European Commission and the Council of Ministers too want to draft a separate risk analysis for each dangerous substance . 
This is very time - consuming , and , more importantly , there is no acceptable level of pollution for dangerous chemical substances . 
Only the background level of the ocean is acceptable . This is what is meant by the term " close - to - zero "  . 
The Commission already has a list of 32 priority substances , many of which have a hormone - deregulating effect . 
These are so - called endocrine disrupters and cause , even in extremely minimal quantities , changes in the gender of animals and even humans , as is more and more being ascertained by scientists . 
This is why it is so important that the European Parliament declares itself openly in favour of the OSPAR objective of close - to - zero by the year 2020 . 
I would like to mention two substances from the Commission ' s list : mercury and tributyl , abbreviated to TBT . 
On the bottom of the Wadden Sea , the values of mercury and TBT are higher than the OSPAR value , to wit , ten and one thousand times , respectively . 
The chemical industry and society as a whole have to learn to replace these dangerous chemical substances by harmless substitutes , and if this is impossible , to apply them in closed systems . 
For the substance TBT , this means that it can no longer be used as an anti - fouling substance . 
A sound alternative would be to clean the ship ' s sides mechanically . 
I would like to finish off by expressing the hope that the European Parliament will pick up once again its green image and will argue in favour of the close - to - zero option for dangerous chemical and hormone - deregulating substances by the year 2020 . 
Mr President , the European Parliament has a crucial role to play in the development of the Water Directive . 
The Council ' s common position is totally inadequate in a number of areas . 
Therefore , our task is to make the requirements in the directive tighter and more concrete . 
As members of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left , we regarded certain principles as particularly important when we adopted a position on the different proposals . 
Firstly , we think that the time - frame for implementing the proposed measures should be shorter than that proposed by the Council . 
We therefore support the proposal to reduce the time allotted for implementing different parts of the directive . 
Secondly , I should like the phasing out of noxious materials to be carried out consistently . 
There should be no initial delay to allow new evaluation criteria to be developed before the measures are implemented . 
The legislation should also have written into it the fact that the international conventions , such as the OSPAR Convention must be respected . 
Thirdly , we should like a clear statement regarding the pricing policy . 
This means that the basic principle must be that the price should represent the real cost of the water used . 
Nowadays , taxpayers often have to subsidise industry and farming . 
The obvious point of departure for legislation should be that polluters or consumers pay , although exemptions would be permitted in extreme cases . 
Fourthly , we should like exemptions from the rules on water status to be kept to a minimum and clearly defined . 
Fifthly , the protection of groundwater status and measures against persistent pollution of the groundwater should be transparent and clear . 
Against that background , our group is able to vote in favour of most of the amendments tabled by Mrs Lienemann , the rapporteur , as adopted in committee . 
We should like to see the scope of a couple of points extended . We will therefore vote for the Greens ' Amendments Nos 102 , 103 and 104 , which we consider to be improvements on the present position . 
As regards pricing policy , there are sometimes extreme cases which may require derogations from the principles laid down in the report . 
My own view is that the options for allowing derogations had already been given proper attention in Amendment No 43 , tabled by the committee and been even more clearly set out in the Greens ' Amendment No 105 . 
I cannot see any need for other derogations besides those specified in the two amendments just mentioned . 
However , some people in our political group think otherwise . 
Consequently , Amendment No 107 , on the same question , has been tabled by one section of our group only . 
On the whole , I welcome the committee ' s proposals set out in Mrs Lienemann ' s report and think they could provide a good basis for a hard - won compromise . 
Mr President , every satellite photo proves that we do indeed live on the blue planet , yet the abundance of water is an illusion . 
The recent disaster on the Danube serves as a reminder that our rivers are the lifelines of our planet and that pollution does not respect borders . 
Water is a renewable but limited natural resource . 
It becomes scarcer when it is mismanaged and when the geographical and climatic conditions are unfavourable . 
In the EU , this is a crucial issue in the Mediterranean region and also in other European countries where we are witnessing the gradual drying of wet areas . 
The increase in vulnerable areas , both wet and dry , inequalities between countries , inequalities between different regions within countries and unusual climatic , economic , geographical and geological events are all the evidence we need . However , these must not lead to competition distortions within the Community . 
We have therefore tabled amendments to highlight the importance of the special relationship between agriculture and water , given that water is an essential factor in the occupation and development of the land . 
Agricultural needs are clearly much greater in the south and this specific point must be taken into account in the framework directive . 
It is not only in the Member States that solutions to these problems are being sought . Last October in Turin , the countries in the Euro - Mediterranean Partnership bluntly demanded a Marshall plan for water for the south coast of the Mediterranean . 
We are not , fortunately , at this point . 
However , we are in Europe experiencing droughts and desertification in certain regions and also floods , which the directive underlines . 
For example , France , the Rhine valley and central Europe recently suffered flooding . 
We need this framework directive as an essential element of a sustainable development policy which must make the various uses of water compatible with each other . 
Yet we also need to integrate the protection and conservation of biodiversity into this new management of water . 
The water issue will definitely not be settled today . In fact , the problems of enlargement and climate change will offer new prospects . 
Mr President , it is very likely that , during this century , good - quality water will be of even more strategic importance than oil . 
This is enough reason to thank Mrs Lienemann for the efforts she has made to obtain sound surface water . 
It seems rather complicated to attain a proper European legislative framework . 
With the framework directive on water policy , we are hoping to end the fragmentation of the EU ' s water legislation . 
But that has not dismissed us from the task of drawing up an extensive and complicated directive which will require great care in its implementation from the executive bodies . 
More specifically , the possibilities for adopting a specific policy by Member States and water boards , which have been set up thanks to the catchment basin approach , need to be maximised . 
The key goals remain the prevention from further pollution of ground and surface water , the protection of eco systems , the promotion of the sustainable use of water , the control of floods and droughts and the termination of discharging dangerous substances into surface water . 
As far as the discharge of these dangerous substances is concerned , I am of the opinion that the Councils ' objectives lack both commitment and ambition . 
The Committee on the Environment ' s present proposal to reduce discharges to close - to - zero is , in my view , to be welcomed and worthy of emulation . 
However , a great deal of attention must be paid to its viability . 
Consideration must then be given to natural background emissions which cannot be influenced , as well as diffused emissions which are difficult to control , and which pollute the water quite substantially . 
Mr President , we need to get used to the idea in the 21st century that we have to show water a completely new respect . 
In the 20th century , water was merely a free evacuation and disposal system for poisonous substances , special waste , chemicals and so on . And we can already see the consequences ! 
We need to rethink and recognise that water is our most important asset and that our responsibility towards it goes far beyond the present generation . 
The directive must be negotiated accordingly and our citizens must be able to understand what we or rather what the Commission is planning here . 
In the final analysis , water protection is not just a social question , it is a decisive social question , which is why the polluter pays principle must be applied more rigorously as otherwise we all bear the consequences . 
Given the advanced state of pollution of water resources , it is important not just to maintain the status quo but to ensure during the vote tomorrow that we achieve genuine quality improvements . 
Mr President , it must be some six years ago now that Mr Karl - Heinz Florenz , assisted by Mrs Ursula Schleicher , put in a request and managed to overhaul the water policy in its entirety . 
It is not an easy topic and , in my opinion , the efforts made by Mrs Lienemann are very laudable indeed . 
The decision - making process concerning this framework directive on water has reached a crucial stage . 
The topic has been brought under the codecision procedure and as a result , we have been able to draft important , more stringent legislation as early on as at first reading . 
In fact , the common position which was issued at the end of last year was already a major improvement on the original proposal . 
It is also very hard to adopt policy in this respect because the discrepancies are so huge . 
I would also address the Spanish Member in this respect : in the North of Europe , we often face floods , but also polluted water , from industry , whilst the problem facing the Members in the South is often related to transporting water over long distances , simply to supply drinking water or water for agriculture . 
I would like to enter into the two elements of this topic in more detail . 
I would first of all like to focus on quality . 
The Netherlands is significantly affected by the European water policy . 
A very important component , to wit , one third of our drinking water , is extracted from surface water in the Netherlands . 
The Netherlands is located downstream , in a delta , which means that the quality of the surface water which heads our way is of key importance . 
Another important point of discussion is the standardisation of water quality . 
In a number of amendments , the proposed standards and especially the OSPAR standard for 2020 are called into question . 
Although I understand that , according to some , this standard is unclear or that it cannot be defended judicially , I do believe that we have to support it because we could then provide more precise standards in a conciliation procedure . 
I would now like to say a few words on quantity management . 
In his poem " Herinneringen aan Holland "  [  " Reminiscing about Holland "  ] , a famous Dutch poet mentioned water too , which , with its never - ending trail of destruction , was feared and respected . 
In 1953 , we suffered an enormous flood at a time when we were able to play a pioneering role in terms of dam technology . 
When our rivers flooded in 1990 , we established that installing artificial works upstream affects the water - storage capacity downstream and can cause a great deal of damage . 
This means that in terms of quantity management too , we need to put in considerable effort to ensure that life upstream and downstream is not affected by it . 
Mr President , I too would like to start by congratulating Mrs Lienemann on her excellent work . 
Water is a basic necessity of life and a fundamental right . 
Everyone should have clean water at their disposal but the availability and good quality of water is not so self - evident , as many have experienced in Southern Europe and are experiencing now in the Danube countries too . 
Water is often a source of conflict between countries and peoples . 
This is why it is important that water becomes subject to international coordination . 
We need to recognise that water is a joint liability . 
Cooperation within a catchment basin must be self - evident . 
Too little operational capacity upstream or , in fact , excessive use , can cause problems downstream . 
Coordination is the key word here . 
The problem of water is becoming increasingly topical . 
Changes in the climate and minor rises in temperature have a direct impact on precipitation . 
Some areas are becoming drier , whilst many are becoming wetter . 
It is time for action . 
In March , the Second World Water Forum will be held in The Hague . 
This Forum stands for a worldwide vision . 
This vision must translate into regional action plans for sustainable water management and water control . 
The time for action is upon us . 
The European Parliament must now opt for a sustainable water policy as a starting point and remain realistic at the same time . 
But we should not lower our standards too much either . 
The common position is not ambitious enough . 
This is why it is necessary to refer to previous international agreements , or the OSPAR objectives . 
We need to aim for dangerous substances to be phased out by 2020 . 
This has been agreed for the marine environment and it is obvious that this agreement will also apply to other waters too . 
The OSPAR objectives are now being drawn up . 
A list has been compiled , containing 400 substances which produce clear risks for the environment . 
It is both technically and economically possible to reduce the emission of these substances to virtually zero and we need to opt for this once again . 
Needless to say , the directive also needs to be binding . 
Countries downstream must be able to count on the fact that countries upstream meet the quality objectives . 
Quality has a price , but pollution could well have a much higher price tag in future . 
Mr President , Commissioner , my compliments to Mrs Lienemann on her excellent work on the Water Directive . 
I should like to remind you that the very serious environmental problems facing us today in the shape of climate change , the depletion of primeval forests and overfishing , constantly affect our common and vital but , in some ways , unowned resources . 
We should also recognise that , in Europe , our fresh water sources may be said to be on the borderline between being owned by everyone and by no - one . 
It is therefore strategically important that responsibility for water is established . 
It is also important for the different watercourses to be kept together and managed as the totality they in fact are , irrespective of who owns one section or another of a common watercourse . 
Ladies and gentlemen , the proposal for a directive does indeed , as many speakers have already said , represent an historic chance to simplify and improve the jumble of piecemeal EU regulations and directives and achieve a high level of environmental protection in Europe . 
However , I have the impression that the policy in the water framework directive is geared towards deregulation and renationalisation . 
I also hope that the vote will not be a washout and that will depend on what I see as two quite fundamental points . 
First OSPAR . 
We know that the Commission proposal does not go far enough ; unfortunately this also applies to the proposal by the Committee on the Environment . 
Merely pulling proposals out of the air is not enough . 
What we need is a completely legally binding objective for OSPAR . 
Only then will we manage to achieve legal clarity and , more importantly , objectives which are enforceable under the law . 
Anything else will fall short of the mark and will not help to prevent ecological disasters , such as those which have just come to light in Romania and Hungary , from happening to us . 
I find it unfortunate that national governments are not prepared to stand up for legally binding protection , despite having agreed internationally on OSPAR . 
But I think that this is exactly what we have to make up for here in Parliament , in order to demonstrate that we will not allow the credibility of our policy to be lost or compromised . 
It is also important to reinforce the polluter pays principle because prices must speak the ecological truth . 
We must not bow down before the agricultural or chemical industry lobbyists ; on the contrary , we must use our vote to promote and express that fact that we want the polluter pays principle and , hence , cost - covering prices . 
Water is our most important resource and we must use our vote to ensure that the incentives and pressure are there to really comply with the OSPAR convention . 
With closed production circuits this is possible ; anything else would water down the directive . 
Let us grab our chance . 
Mr President , in the small amount of time allotted to me , I would like to welcome the Mrs Lienemann ' s report and remind the House of three principles , to which all other principles must be subordinate , which are clearly expressed in the rapporteur ' s amendments : water is not a commercial product , but the property of all the peoples of the Union ; the ultimate objective is to eliminate all pollutants in surface water and groundwater , and to inform the public so that it can participate in the recuperation of water and not use water excessively given that it is such a precious commodity . 
I know that this directive may have problems , given the differing situations of the various countries of the Union , as has already been mentioned . 
The situation in the north is different from that in the south , and different from the situation in those countries which have the problem of desert areas . 
I understand this . 
However , there are some amendments which attempt to help the countries of the south , specifically Amendment No 43 which , with regard to the recuperation of costs , also indicates that Member States must take into account the social and environmental conditions of the countries when it comes to decision making . 
There are also difficulties with the issue of transfers . 
In my country - I live in the north of Spain - , there is a considerable difference between the north and the south , and difficulties arise when we have to transfer water from one place to another . 
However , Mrs Lienemann ' s report also says that the river basins receiving the transferred water must save and protect their water . 
I know that this is a difficult report and that the differing situations of countries cause difficulties , but we must move forward with a framework directive which will prevent a repetition of what is happening on the Danube and what happened in Doñana . 
We cannot allow our European water to be polluted , Mr President , and we must produce a directive which will strengthen the political will of governments to preserve the resource of water , which is so precious to all of us . 
Mr President , my compliments to the rapporteur on a splendid report . 
As an Irish Member of the European Parliament , coming from a country which has large reserves of rich water , I support the vast majority of the proposals included in this directive . 
However , I would now like to look at the areas of difference between Parliament ' s Committee on the Environment and the Council . 
The latter has already brought forward its common position on this matter . 
According to the Council the objective of achieving good surface water status should be secured no later than 16 years after the directive enters into force , whereas Parliament ' s Committee on the Environment would like to see this deadline shortened to ten years . 
I see no reason why European Union Member States cannot work to implement the key provisions of this directive in as short a time as possible . 
I now turn to the amendments to be tabled before Parliament tomorrow concerning the principle of the recovery of cost of water usage . 
The Council in its common position states that the European Union governments must take account of the principle of recovery of the cost of water usage . 
No specific target date for the implementation of this principle was included in the common position . 
Amendment No 43 seeks to ensure that by the year 2010 water pricing policies in Europe must provide adequate incentives to use water efficiently . 
Moreover , an adequate contribution from different economic sectors , broken down into industrial , household and agricultural sectors , must ensure that this policy is implemented . 
Unless these amendments are supported tomorrow a strong message will be sent out that metering and water rates should be implemented for households right across the European Union states . 
This is politically impractical from an Irish perspective , as indeed it would be from the perspective of other EU Member States such as Portugal , Greece and Spain . 
Mr President , I want first of all to say thank you to Mrs Lienemann for her report . 
It is here and now that we decide to what extent the EU countries are to work effectively for a cleaner aquatic environment in the years to come . 
We can do this by , as a Parliament , amending the Council ' s common position and showing the way forward in working for a cleaner environment . 
In its unaltered form , the present directive could , in fact , have very unfortunate and long - term consequences for the environment and for our drinking water . 
It would be to send out the wrong signals both to European industry and to the European people . 
It is crucial to adhere to a limit upon total discharges of chemicals into our waters . 
The directive quite obviously provides too extended a time frame within which time is to be spent measuring every single one of the approximately 100 , 000 chemicals in circulation . 
We cannot afford to wait . 
In this connection , I would ask Parliament to support Amendment No 108 , in which the words " water pollution caused by individual pollutants " are replaced by " prevention of water pollution through the continuous reduction in discharges "  . 
We cannot delay environmental work by going into inordinate detail rather than working on reducing total discharges of hazardous substances into the environment . 
The EU ' s Ministers for the Environment must therefore stand by their affiliation to the OSPAR Convention , which now already defines what is hazardous to the environment . 
This Convention should be our guide in working for the clean environment which we owe to ourselves and , not least , to our descendants . 
Mr President , it is difficult to summarise the areas covered by such a large and complex directive . 
The Treaty of Amsterdam reiterates the priority criteria for prevention , for the implementation of the ' polluter pays ' principle and for sustainable development through an environmental impact assessment . 
Clearly , the importance of recognising the economic value of ecological factors in setting prices and making operators accountable through the adoption of incentives for non - polluting systems , seems unquestionable in the light of events that characterise the relationship between economic development and the protection of our environmental heritage , particularly our water resources . 
This situation is loudly echoed in many sectors of the economy , and especially in the agricultural sector . 
The concept of good agricultural practice has been introduced in amongst the complexity of the current relationships between agriculture , environment and water resources , and between positive and negative effects , and amongst the wide range of local realities and production systems and so on . This concept indicates which agricultural production method to use in order to satisfy the Community expectation of an environmental protection of water resources that surpasses basic standards , along with the subsequent costs and reductions in income . 
The obligation to develop and consolidate a strategy for integration derives from this notion , with the aim of keeping the management of water resources at the heart of the sustainable economic production model in the light of current conditions . 
We must not , with this in mind , pursue a strategy of separating the objective of preventing a deterioration in the state of surface water and groundwater from the objectives of protecting , improving and restoring their quality , as this would create a superfluous hierarchy of priorities detrimental to the overall functioning of interventions and specific measures that target a combined approach and the use of the best available techniques . 
As regards eliminating the pollution generated by dangerous substances in the aquatic environment , an optimum approach should provide a regulation at both national and Community levels , which enables clearer identification of the various classes of bodies of water polluted as a result of human production activities . 
Finally , we need to set up a system which prepares an objective list of potentially dangerous substances , using the increased information available on their chemical , physical and biological properties , in such a way as to create an integrated model for intervention at a range of strategic levels in order to protect our water heritage , which is fundamental to us all . 
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , if we are to take the principle of sustainability enshrined in the Treaty of Amsterdam seriously , then our long - term objective must be to achieve zero inputs in our water because we need to safeguard water so that future generations do not pay the price for our water consumption . 
We can achieve this long - term objective by developing measures with demanding standards . 
In this respect , I fully support the amendments proposed by Mrs Lienemann to develop a reasonable approach using quality standards so that we can eventually say that , when people use water , they are not consuming it but maintaining present stocks . 
This directive contains a number of very positive elements which are worth highlighting . 
First there is wide information for and involvement by the public , a rarity in a European directive . 
Secondly , there is compulsory cooperation . 
I am glad a holistic approach to water is being taken here and that authorities in the individual national states and beyond the borders of the national states are at last obliged to work together and ensure that water is of a high quality . 
Thirdly , I should like to address the question of the timetable . 
I am firmly convinced that we need a strict , tight timetable in order to work towards our long - term objective . 
Compare it with what happens in December . 
We all know in December that Christmas Eve falls on 24th December and we start buying presents . 
But what would we do if we knew in December that Christmas was in thirty years ' time . 
We all know what we would do , which is why we need a tight timetable for our water policy . 
I emphatically support the rapporteur ' s proposals and think that we need a tight timetable for all areas of the directive , from the list of measures to the question of employment measures . 
Mr President , the purpose of the present objective ought to be to ensure that the Member States work together to protect groundwater , drinking water and surface water and that the level of protection corresponds to existing EU environmental legislation . 
May I take this opportunity to remind you that previous resolutions concerning the Nitrates Directive have still not been implemented in all Member States , in spite of the fact that there is a common EU resolution . 
The present proposal tightens up the protection of the aquatic environment in a number of ways which exceed our current environmental objectives . 
It is proposed that a target should be achieved for concentrations in the aquatic environment which is close to the background values for naturally occurring substances and close to zero for humanly produced synthetic substances . 
This cannot be done , and it also , in any case , goes against nature . 
Adopting this report would have serious consequences for agriculture in the EU if concentrations of , for example , phosphorus and nitrogen could not exceed the background values for these substances in the aquatic environment and if a limit of zero were to be established for pesticides in the aquatic environment . 
European agriculture would not , for example , be able to grow bread grain with a high enough protein content for it to be used for making bread . 
As a result , agricultural production would move to other countries outside the EU , with consequent high socio - economic and employment costs . 
I cannot vote in favour of the sections in the Water Framework Directive which deal with these states of affairs . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , water is a precious raw material . 
Millions of people do not even have clean water - a absolute necessity for survival - at their disposal . 
It should , therefore , not surprise us that water is the cause of wars . 
The capitalist world too sends out its pawns in order to gain maximum control over water reservoirs . 
General interest or solidarity often do not come into the equation . 
Europe is therefore facing an arduous task ; that of combining a Community water policy which is fragmented in terms of objectives and means into more coherent framework legislation . 
I have to admit that in Flanders , where I come from , we still have a long way to go too . 
We were recently rapped on the knuckles by the Commission regarding this matter . 
Anyone with any sense would like to see this framework directive used as a big stick for those pursuing policies who are now failing in some way . 
The common position is in this respect a farce , a document with no strings attached and a true affront in the light of the OSPAR agreements . 
The period of implementation can even be extended up to 34 years . 
By then , my children will be older than I am now . 
You have to admit : this is a joke . 
Tomorrow , we might opt in favour of a weak and permissive framework which ruins the future of our children . Either we opt for the amendments of my group , of the rapporteur or the Committee on the Environment . 
I would like to finish off with this observation . 
In the past couple of months , we have witnessed a great deal of lobbying in Belgium . 
What was remarkable about this dossier was the enormous pressure from the Council of Ministers . 
In our own country , this pressure was exerted by both Flemish and Wallonian Environment administrations . 
They have opted for the weak common position in favour of our Parliament ' s more drastic positioning . 
I really do wonder whether this is an approach of which the green Environment Ministers in my country are aware . 
Ladies and gentlemen , fine words are no longer sufficient . 
We need to change tack completely . 
During the vote tomorrow , we can make it clear that Europe is drafting a responsible and future - orientated water policy . 
This can only benefit our credibility . 
The debate is suspended and will resume at 9 p . m . 
The dialogue on Europe - institutional reform
The next item is the Commission communication - The dialogue on Europe - institutional reform : the issues at stake . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the Commission is discussing this issue right now but it will be very surprising if its work is completed today . I am basically here to speak to you , as indicated by your agenda , on a new initiative which the Commission is proposing as just one of its responses to the major challenge of institutional reform . 
This reform must involve all the actors in European construction , with yourselves as MEPs at the forefront but also myself as a Commissioner , the Council ministers and national MPs . It must also involve the officials who work in our various institutions and who are committed to and motivated by this European construction . 
This morning , in the lengthy debate which I attended with Mr Prodi , many of you mentioned the lack of democracy and remoteness of the European institutions . 
Yet it is not just a question of who does what , as one of you said very clearly and forcefully . 
Ensuring that our citizens understand who does what in our various institutions is the very least we can do . 
We must also now explain what we are doing together and what we want to do together in the future , particularly with the countries which will be joining us . 
We too are concerned about this lack of democracy , and the Commission has therefore decided to launch the ' Dialogue on Europe ' in order to play its part in this direct contact with the people . This initiative will be launched on the day after the opening of the Intergovernmental Conference . 
During the IGC I will have the honour of representing the Commission together with Mr Prodi and of working closely with your two representatives , Mr Brok and Mr Tsatsos . All the Commissioners have undertaken to use some of their time when they go to any country or region , and not just their own , which in my case happens three or four times a month , to engage in direct dialogue with the public , and not just with the élite or those in power whom we meet as a matter of course . 
We also plan to establish direct contacts in universities , schools and factories , to meet the people , answer their questions and listen to them . In this way we will play our part , as will you , in making the necessary effort and meeting the urgent obligation to reduce the democratic deficit and the remoteness of our citizens from what we do . 
We hope to conduct this initiative in cooperation with the Member States and in conjunction with the European Parliament . 
We will produce a regular summary of this initiative so that public opinion can be measured and we can adjust or reorient the work . 
We also hope to conduct this initiative in consultation with the national parliaments , local elected representatives , non - governmental organisations , socio - professional organisations and the media . 
Opinion multipliers , political groups and parties , MEPs and national MPs , elected representatives , as I have just said , local authorities or national parliaments , the Committee of the Regions , the Economic and Social Committee , organisations stemming from civil society and university and education circles will all be involved . 
Need I remind you that the European Parliament itself took the initiative on 1 February ? I must again thank Mr Napolitano for organising an initial working meeting with the representatives of the national parliaments who are , of course , the representatives of the people in each Member State . 
The Commission will propose that the Member States become involved in this exercise either as part of ad hoc cooperation or a more structured partnership . 
We are setting up a media plan and close contacts with the European Union Presidency and the European Parliament . 
I have indicated the conditions under which the Commissioners will play their part through public meetings and visits . 
We want to encourage debate among the people . 
Without presuming to lecture you - God forbid - or even advise you , may I just point out that , when it was my honour to be Minister for European Affairs in my own country , I saw the need to establish a direct dialogue with the people ? Each week , when engaging in this dialogue in each region , I realised that there was a real need for the European Union to have a face . 
I therefore took a European Commissioner , and not just the French ones , or ambassadors posted in Paris or MEPs to engage in this dialogue each week . This made me realise that people had many intelligent questions and that they needed to be respected , listened to and informed . 
So this is what we are going to do . We will have a budget of approximately EUR 4 million for 2000 which you will hopefully approve . 
Financing from the 2001 budget must also be negotiated as we want this initiative not just to be an experiment but to last throughout both 2000 and 2001 . It will therefore be ongoing throughout the negotiation of the Intergovernmental Conference and the ratification process . 
We will launch this dialogue on 8 March in Brussels in the presence of 700 young Commission stagiaires . 
Your President , Mrs Fontaine , has agreed to take part with Mr Prodi and several Commissioners in this initial dialogue . I can assure you that , whenever a Commissioner intends to engage in dialogue , the most immediately available MEPs will also be able to take part in order to give their point of view and explain the work and role of the European Parliament . 
That is all I have to say for the moment . 
I welcome any questions , suggestions or proposals from the Members present . 
Colleagues , you know the rules . 
You are expected to ask questions , not necessarily make lengthy statements . 
You have one minute each in which to ask your question . 
Mr President , I think I also speak for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that I chair , in expressing my appreciation of this Commission initiative . 
Moreover , this initiative is consistent with recommendations made by Parliament itself in its resolution of 18 November . 
I have also heard Commissioner Barnier ' s clarification of relations and links with the European Parliament during the implementation of this programme . 
If I may make a suggestion , Commissioner Barnier , would it be possible for the communication to say something more on this subject , in addition to the straightforward and slightly clinical phrase which indicates that it will be carried out in conjunction with the European Parliament ? 
It would be helpful to stress this convergence of intentions and efforts because I can see a particular problem with coordination , specifically between the Commission initiative - which certainly does not only address members of national parliaments , but also members of national parliaments - and our committee ' s programme . Following the working meeting of 1 February , which Commissioner Barnier referred to and which benefited from the weighty contribution of the Commission , the committee intends to take stock of developments at the Intergovernmental Conference at all of its meetings . 
We therefore hope to benefit from the capable and consistent participation of members of national parliaments at all of our meetings , and this will be a channel which will ably supplement the ones in the Commission ' s initiative . 
Thank you , Mr Napolitano . I can confirm that our proposal is completely within the spirit of the resolution of 18 November . 
I also want at this stage to say that I was able to propose this initiative to the Commission thanks to the cooperation and understanding of my colleague , Viviane Reding . This initiative was also established in conjunction with Günter Verheugen as it involves all the major challenges of enlargement , both its opportunities and risks , and of institutional reform . 
These challenges must be explained to our citizens who are concerned about them and questioning them . 
I understand your concern , Mr Napolitano , and an interinstitutional working group will be set up . 
Its first meeting should take place in March . 
I will ensure that we go further than the rather dry terms of the Commission ' s text and it will certainly be more a question of sharing the work than working in liaison with each other . I will also ensure that over the next two years we can coordinate the initiatives taken by yourselves and ourselves which will be separate but joint . 
You realise that making a success of this dialogue means work for everyone concerned . 
Mr President , Commissioner , it is music to my ears to hear you use the word ' citizen ' so often . 
We are increasingly concerned in this House about public opinion . 
The fear of public opinion is a rather paternalistic concept but our House is what it is and we must do what we can with it . 
In terms of the IGC issue , I have a specific question for you . I believe that the Court of Justice in Luxembourg is currently looking very closely at the important issue of the fight against fraud and OLAF . 
As you know , there are problems which not only concern this House but also the European officials who are also European citizens . 
Given the urgency surrounding this issue , has the Commission considered the possibility of completely changing the structure of the anti - fraud office by moving to a solution which would entail the fight against fraud , in the Member States and in the European institutions , coming under the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice ? 
Mr President , Mr Commissioner , the day before yesterday , there was a leading news item in the most popular Danish news programme , which I would ask you to comment on . 
The story went that an official in the Commission had apparently told an Austrian businessman that , because he was Austrian , he would possibly be excluded from being able to participate in a scientific development project together with businesses in other countries , including Denmark . 
I would ask you to confirm that , if an official has said that an Austrian company is in some way excluded from participating in joint development projects , then this official has got the wrong end of the stick , and that , if he has not said this , then there is no story . 
Will you confirm what is the case ? 
Mr Haarder , to my knowledge no official has been authorised to say such a thing . 
My personal opinion is that it would be wrong and unfair to penalise the Austrian people , businesses and employees because of concerns prompted by the establishment in Austria of a new government coalition . 
Therefore , subject to verification which I or someone else will give immediately after this sitting , I can confirm what you have just said , that the Commission has never said or authorised anything of this sort . 
Generally speaking , there are other lessons to be learnt from what is happening in Austria . I have myself suggested various possible responses to this challenge which serves to remind us all once more what we have been doing together since 1957 . 
This is an economic community , of course , but it is also , primarily , a community of values . 
This is why we are drawing up a Charter of Fundamental Rights which will more widely and more clearly protect our citizens on an individual basis . This is why we have Article 13 of the EC Treaty on discrimination which we proposed , in our opinion of 26 January even before the Austrian crisis , should be applied after the IGC by qualified majority rather than by unanimity . 
This is why I personally have an idea to supplement Article 7 of the EU Treaty with a new paragraph which would give the democratic warning or monitoring procedure a legal basis . Finally , this is why we have public debate . 
The only way to eliminate misconceived ideas is to offer alternatives , which brings me back to the subject of our discussion . I firmly believe in the democratic force and value of debate , particularly to fight against demagoguery . 
Commissioner Barnier , you laid great stress in your statement on the importance of dialogue with the citizens of Europe . 
With reference to the IGC , as you know , under the Helsinki decisions the Portuguese Presidency was given the specific entitlement to add to the agenda of the IGC during the course of the IGC . 
Clearly , Parliament has its own representatives present , Mr Brok and Mr Tsatsos . 
But would you , Commissioner , also be in a position to give an undertaking that if and when the agenda is enlarged by the Council you would report this to Parliament so that we could discuss it amongst ourselves and indeed with you , with the intention of continuing that dialogue with the citizens on which you have laid such stress ? 
Mr Beazley , my answer is clearly yes but that is no surprise . 
Mr Napolitano , the chairman , and many other members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and even more MEPs in this House know that , on behalf of the Commission , I will be available to tell you how things are going as they happen throughout these negotiations , in a spirit of transparency . 
I will perhaps say this differently from Mr Tsatsos and Mr Brok who are your direct representatives but it is also probable that , in many cases , we will say this together . 
It is very important that these negotiations is not secretive with the European Parliament or the national parliaments which , when all said and done , will have their opinions to give and their positions to take in the ratification process . 
This is why I congratulate Mr Napolitano ' s initiative for regular joint consultation between the national parliaments of the Fifteen and the European Parliament . 
Having said that , the duty of transparency and debate starts here with regard to the reform of the institutions . 
I will therefore be available whenever you want in order to inform you of our positions and the progress being made in these negotiations throughout this year . 
Mr President , firstly I would like to compliment the Commission on its approach . 
I think it is extremely useful to open up the communication channels with the citizen at an early stage . This did not really happen for the Treaty of Amsterdam or the Treaty of Maastricht and this has only led to a great deal of mistrust . 
I have two questions . Firstly , you mentioned that you will start a two - way dialogue with the citizens and I am already making a start with the 700 placement students at the European Commission . 
Do you intend to address the citizens via the media as well , that is to say via the television and Internet ? 
My second question is of a critical nature . 
The European Commission has just issued a proposal on transparency . 
If I compare this with the transparency proposal which pertains to legislation in the Netherlands , then the European model is vastly overshadowed by the Dutch model , and that proposal has met with a lot of criticism in the Netherlands . 
My question is really : how do you intend to organise transparency with regard to the IGC , because the present directive is not a good example of this . 
Mrs Maij - Weggen , given that we are talking about ensuring transparency in the IGC , it is clear how business will be conducted and the negotiations are starting right now . 
The group of representatives is currently meeting in Brussels and I will try to join them as soon as possible . 
The documents will in the main be open working documents . 
Although the negotiation sessions which will take place throughout the year between ministers and the European Council will not be open to the media , I am committed , as I must be at this stage , to ensuring this transparency and reporting in the most appropriate arenas on these negotiations and the Commission ' s viewpoint . 
I can confirm , and thank you for having asked me about this , that we will use all the most modern means , television in particular , to broadcast our public debates in each country and even across Europe . We will open an Internet forum and create permanent discussion forums . 
The Commissioners will undertake to respond rapidly to any questions raised . 
These are the modern means to be used . 
However , I believe we must also make the effort to get as close as possible to the people . 
Although this may be a rather Utopian ideal , I want a Commissioner , when he can , an MEP , a minister to attend public debates in all the regions of Europe . 
I have evidence that this is possible . The majority of you hold these debates in your constituencies and regions . 
Although this may seem rather egotistical , I want the Commission , in the minds of the people , to have a face and for those people forming the Commission to be able to meet our citizens as often as possible . 
Mr President , I welcome Mr Barnier ' s commitment to go to the regions , both to explain and to listen to what citizens have to say . 
I would like to invite him to my own region of Yorkshire , a major European region that is a full participant in the single European market and a major recipient of European structural funding . 
He can come with both the hats that he wears as a Commissioner . 
I would like to ask him how vigorous the Commission will be in this information campaign ? 
In some Member States it is not just a matter of providing information to a public that is not as well informed as it might be . 
That is certainly important but it is also a question of combating the misinformation that is put around by a very active anti - European movement and anti - European organisations that exist . 
The Commission will have to be very vigorous in the responses that it puts out to some of the comments that it will be receiving as part of the campaign . 
Mr Corbett , thank you for your comments . 
I willingly accept your invitation . 
If I have understood you correctly , you want me , when I come to Yorkshire , to talk not only about the reform of the European institutions but also the Structural Funds . 
I can perform this dual task . 
I forgot to mention my intention to go before the national parliaments , as I have already done , not only by meeting their representatives here but by going to see them in situ . 
Ten days ago I was in Westminster , so you can see , Mr Corbett , that I am not afraid of the difficulties . 
Next week I will go to the Bundestag in Berlin . 
I have already appeared before the French Senate . 
Therefore , throughout this debate , whenever I can , I will go directly to see the national parliaments too . 
With regard to the dialogue with our citizens , it is not a question of propaganda or marketing , nor even of communication . 
I want this dialogue to be a real dialogue . So , after a short film objectively explaining the challenges of institutional reform , those in the public gallery can participate in an open discussion . 
I will say again that we are going to conduct this dialogue initiative through specific cooperation or a more structured partnership with the Member States . I sincerely hope , with your support , that the governments of the Fifteen will participate in this dialogue initiative in the manner which they consider most appropriate . 
Mr President , I should like to join Mr Barnier ' s study group with the 700 trainees so that he has some people to discuss matters with . 
It is not much fun , of course , having to discuss transparency and intergovernmental conferences with yourself . 
In connection with the Intergovernmental Conference , Mr Barnier said , during his presentation in Parliament , that social policy was not to be subject to majority decision - making but , when I look at page 63 , I see that rights of travel and of residence - that is to say , the Residence Directives -  , combating discrimination , the whole of social security and the renewal of Regulation No 1408 and , with a few exceptions , of arrangements in the socio - political sphere are to be subject to qualified majority voting . 
Is not Mr Barnier nervous about penetrating the inner workings of the Member States ' election processes ? 
It is , of course , these issues which people go to the polls about and which lead to new majorities in the Folketing and other parliaments . 
Can such matters be controlled from Brussels ? 
Is this an element in the radical decentralisation which Mr Prodi talked about this morning ? 
I was very glad to learn last week that the Commission is giving close attention over a number of years to the concept of subsidiarity and its reference , not merely to relations between the Union and Member States , but also the Union , the Member States , regions and cities . 
I hope that in his pursuit of dialogue around the regions of Europe , Commissioner Barnier will expand upon that thought and learn from what he hears . 
Commissioner , I want to go back to one of your previous answers . In this you mentioned what I would refer to as the possibilities of protecting the EU Treaty against any risks of deviation and , in particular , the variation of penalties which may be imposed on a Member State , pursuant to Article 7 , for the violation of fundamental freedoms . 
Do you believe that these proposals , or proposals of this type , form part of the mandate of the IGC as defined in Helsinki ? 
I do not think so . 
Are you not afraid that such penalties might get out of hand and serve to punish not violations of human rights but simple differences of opinion , unpopular opinions or deviations from the dominant European thinking ? 
Yes , Mr Bonde , we will be starting this debate with 700 young people in Brussels who are going to be working in the institutions and with the Commission . I believe that it will be good to start this dialogue with young people who are motivated . 
In terms of social protection , I can confirm that we have made proposals about qualified majority or unanimous voting but these are regardless of ideology . 
In your country , Mr Bonde , like everywhere else , I believe people are keen for the internal market to work properly under the fairest conditions of competition and movement of goods and people . 
This will therefore be our rule . 
We are proposing that decisions on certain policies or measures involving taxation or social protection and social security should be taken by qualified majority voting when there is a direct link with the proper operation of the internal market . Our proposal is not general or systematic . 
I am well aware of the sensitivity of these taxation and social protection issues . 
I do not believe that all the national systems of social protection should be made identical . 
This has never been the case . We are simply trying to ensure , in a Europe with 30 or 27 Member States , the best conditions for the operation of the internal market without one country being able to block the other 26 or 27 . 
Mr MacCormick , I agree that this dialogue must reach beyond the national capitals . It must get as close as possible to the people , where they live and where they have their roots . 
If I said anything different I would be contradicting myself as Commissioner for Regional Policy which is one of the most specific and most visible policies for increasing employment and improving the quality of life of people in their regions . 
You will often hear me say that this policy does not just have one main objective of achieving cohesion and solidarity between the regions but that it is intended in addition to help people , where they live , to preserve their roots , traditions , soul and identity . 
We will therefore conduct this dialogue with the towns and regions . 
Mr Berthu , the Helsinki mandate is clear and we are working within this . 
It specifies that we must deal firstly and as a priority with the three basic issues which were left out in Amsterdam . 
It also adds related institutional questions and issues which may be included in the negotiations depending on the Portuguese and French presidencies . 
The Commission is acting correctly if , on a particular point , it believes it must add to its opinion which covers many institutional questions . I am not yet sure that we will do this on Article 7 . 
However , if we do , this will not be solely in response or as a reaction to an economic situation which is sufficiently serious that the fourteen governments of the Union must mobilise together to give their response . We will also do this with regard for the future in general . 
We will use all the means available to permanently strengthen the community of values which we have been building together since the founding of the Union in 1957 , and even before that , on the rubble of the Second World War . 
Everything which can be done will be useful . I am sure that you and I , Mr Berthu , can at least agree on this . 
Thank you , Commissioner . 
You have answered the questions precisely and also opened the dialogue for Europe that you referred to . 
You have set a very good example of time - keeping today . 
That concludes the debate . 
Question Time ( Commission ) 
The next item is Question Time ( B5 - 0009 / 2000 ) . 
We will examine questions to the Commission . 
First part
Question No 36 by ( H - 0025 / 00 ) : 
Subject : High infant mortality in Kosovo According to the latest UN data received from the World Health Organisation , Kosovo has the highest rate of infant mortality in Europe ; almost 50 % of babies born prematurely die , while the war has produced a steep rise in miscarriages and children who manage to go to term are smaller than the norm . 
In the context of the humanitarian aid provided by the Union and the efforts of its envoy Bernard Kouchner , will the Commission say what measures have been taken to safeguard the women of Kosovo ' s right to motherhood and the health of pregnant women , women in childbirth and babies ? 
Mr President , the Commission is conscious of the very difficult situation concerning health and health facilities in Kosovo , not just for pregnant women but across the board . 
This results both from the recent conflict and from the years of neglect and lack of maintenance that preceded it . 
The statistics quoted on child mortality speak for themselves and are wholly unacceptable . 
However , the situation is hardly better for other parts of the population . 
The Commission ' s response has been as follows : firstly , the health sector has been a significant beneficiary of ECHO funding . 
ECHO is currently focusing on the provision of medical supplies and emergency health care , on support to institutions as well as vaccination . 
However , efforts are increasingly oriented towards the establishment of a self - sufficient healthcare system in the province . 
UNMIK has already taken a significant role in this field . 
Secondly , under the reconstruction programme , urgent intervention at the hospital in Mitrovica has already been initiated with a EUR 1 million rehabilitation programme . 
Progress is slow due to the tense relations between the ethnic groups of this divided city . 
However , the Commission is maintaining its efforts with the support of UNMIK for this project . 
We hope that one day it may become a symbol promoting the benefits of ethnic reconciliation . 
Under the European Community ' s damage assessment , estimated costs of the reconstruction of healthcare facilities and provision of equipment to dispensaries and health houses amount to EUR 4 million . 
The Commission is now turning to the programming of 2000 funds . 
We expect to dedicate a considerable sum to improving the healthcare system . 
The emphasis will be on long - term reforms covering health financing as well as training and procurement . 
Work is already under way with UNMIK to determine an appropriate contribution from the Commission to this enterprise . 
Commissioner , this morning President Prodi , among others , stressed that the Balkans are testing our ability to act effectively , the very credibility of the European Union is on trial , and the gap between words and deeds must finally be closed . 
Commissioner , do you really think that the facts we have about high infant mortality in Kosovo - the highest in Europe - and more generally the picture of human misery and destruction that prevails in Kosovo , are not already damaging our credibility and casting doubt on our ability to live up to our promises ? 
Besides , Commissioner , is so - called humanitarian military intervention justified by the present picture of human destruction in Kosovo ? 
Do you think that so much inaction is excusable when , on the continent of Europe itself , the right to life is at risk ? 
I do not think that our reconstruction agency or the task force before it , which have been working incredibly hard in Kosovo , would regard it as an adequate description of their labours to suggest that they had been standing idly by . 
I am sure the honourable Member did not mean that . 
Of course , she is entirely correct in saying that the Union ' s credibility is on the line with what happens , not just in Kosovo but in the Balkans as a whole . 
I am very concerned that the assistance we provide should arrive expeditiously and in a way which can maximise our assistance . 
I would just make two points about the situation in Kosovo which we are addressing as enthusiastically as we can along WHO lines . 
First of all , I am sure that the honourable Member recognises that over the period of the 1990s the government in Belgrade underfunded the health service in Kosovo , and many Albanians found that they were not really receiving any health care at all . 
As a result of that , a parallel health care system was put in place through the Mother Teresa Society . 
So what we are dealing with is not just the consequences of conflict but the consequences of years of neglect and chronic under - investment . 
Secondly , and I am sure that the honourable Member recognises this as well , some of the tragic stories to come out of Kosovo in recent weeks have not been about child mortalities during carriage of a baby , but child mortality after a healthy baby has been born . 
Those were cases in which women who during the hostilities , or before the hostilities , tragically killed their own children . 
We are dealing with a horrific story in Kosovo . 
We have to work as well as we can in the health care field and in others to restore something approaching civilised standards and civilised behaviour , but it is not going to be easy . 
Commissioner , I would like to thank you for your response to the Member ' s first question and the supplementary question . 
However , I still have some contacts in Kosovo who have informed me that food packages which are distributed by ECHO , among others , are often of inferior quality . 
In some cases , there have been incidents of food containing insects and such like . 
Are you aware of this ? 
Are you prepared to act upon it ? 
This is my first additional question . 
My second question pertains to the reconstruction of the hospital in Mitrovica . 
You are perhaps aware that this hospital is located in the Northern part of the city and that , given the tense situation , Albanian Kosovars do not have any access to this section at all . 
What does the Commission intend to do in order to ensure that Albanian Kosovars too can get to hospital ? 
On the first question , I am going myself to Kosovo at the beginning of next month for another visit and I will certainly look into the allegation made by the honourable Member about the ECHO food package . 
I have not heard that suggestion before , but it is an important point and I will certainly investigate it when I am there . 
Secondly , I do understand exactly what the honourable Member is saying about Mitrovica . 
I was in Mitrovica a couple of months ago , I saw the situation there for myself . 
I had discussions with municipal leaders from both communities , including the leader of the Albanian side who had himself in the past been a doctor and was generally recognised for the medical work he had done during the hostilities and subsequently . 
So I know the very serious problems that exist in that hospital and I can assure the honourable Member that we will be doing all that we can to see that adequate health facilities are available for everybody in Kosovo , whatever ethnic group they come from . 
The particular difficulties in Mitrovica - for example , it is not just a question of Albanian patients having difficulty getting to hospital , Albanian staff have had difficulty working there - are particularly acute problems . 
We will try to address them , but it is not easy . 
Question No 37 by ( H - 0029 / 00 ) : 
Subject : Turkish blockade of Armenia Given that the European Union is actively promoting social , economic and political relations with Armenia through the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement signed on 12 October 1999 , what steps is the Commission taking to persuade the Turkish Government to lift the economic blockade of Armenia ? 
The Commission supports any effort aimed at the settlement of the disputes between Turkey and Armenia and regrets that there has not yet been any normalisation of relations between these two countries . 
In the present political circumstances it is however unrealistic to imagine that the border between Armenia and Turkey , as well as the one between Armenia and Azerbaijan could be opened without settlement of the Nagorno - Karabakh conflict . 
Mr President , the Commission will be holding negotiations in the future on the accession of Turkey to the European Union . 
Will it make it a condition that negotiations can only start if the blockade is lifted because , in the final analysis , we are all neighbours and we want to cultivate positive neighbourly relations inside the European Union ? 
My question therefore is this : will the Commission make this one of the conditions in order to improve future discussions ? 
The key issue is to support the efforts of the OSCE Minsk group to find a settlement to the Nagorno - Karabakh conflict and we stand ready to help in any way we can . 
We have also been substantial contributors of development assistance under the TACIS programme to Armenia . 
Let me relate my answer specifically to the question of Turkish accession to the European Union . 
The situation of Turkey ' s relations with its neighbours will , as the honourable Member asks , be closely examined in the framework of the pre - accession strategy . 
As stated in Agenda 2000 - and I quote :  " Enlargement should not mean importing border conflicts " . 
That statement could not be much clearer . 
But I repeat that the most important contribution we can make is to try to assist in the resolution of that conflict which has had such harmful economic and humanitarian results . 
Question No 38 by ( H - 0040 / 00 ) : 
Subject : Implications for human rights of the construction of the Ilisu Dam in Turkey Given that Turkey has recently been granted applicant country status , what is the Commission ' s view of the implications for human rights of the construction of the Ilisu Dam , given the massive displacement of the Kurdish and the other people of the region that will result ? 
The Commission has no information regarding the impact of the construction of the Ilisu Dam on the population of the region . 
We will , however , consider raising the matter with the Turkish authorities , together with other issues concerning regional development policies in the framework of the new pre - accession strategy for Turkey . 
I have a related point . 
It concerns the implications of the dam on access to fresh water in the region as a whole . 
As you know , the dam will limit the supply of fresh water to Syria and to Iraq in particular . 
Given the extreme volatility of this region and given the very real concerns of many commentators that we will see an increased incidence of conflict , of so - called " water wars " , in the coming decades , what is the Commission ' s view about the potential destabilisation , both in Turkey and in the wider region , that will be caused by this dam ? 
Can you say whether you will indeed raise this point as well ? 
We will certainly raise the point made by the honourable Member . 
We have heard anxieties expressed on that point and I will ensure it is taken up . 
There have also been considerable anxieties expressed about the potential danger to the archaeological heritage in the area . 
We will raise that , too , in the representations we make . 
A number of other hydro - electric schemes planned over the last 30 years in Turkey have raised matters of concern , such as the effect on displaced farmers . 
On the whole those seem to have been dealt with relatively satisfactorily and I hope that the same can be true of this project which - just to make the point clear - is not a project in which the Commission is participating in any form . 
We thank Mr Patten for having replied on behalf of the Commission . 
Question No 39 by ( H - 0036 / 00 ) : 
Subject : Drafting of Charter of Fundamental Rights The general public welcomes the fact that a Charter of Fundamental Rights is to be drawn up . 
It is also to be hoped that it will meet the challenges of Europe in the 21st century . 
What are the Commission ' s views on the substance of the Charter ? What type of rights will the Charter set out ( economic , social and cultural ) ? 
Which citizens will it cover ( those of the European Union or the citizens of all European countries with a view to enlargement ? Will it cover immigrants etc . ? ) 
Will it set out established social rights in the European Union or will it set a broader agenda ? 
What means will the Charter use to ensure that it clearly guarantees equality between the sexes ? 
What are the Commission ' s views on incorporating the Charter into the Treaty on European Union ? 
Like the honourable Member , the Commission welcomes the decision taken by the Heads of State and Government to start the process of drawing up a European Charter of Fundamental Rights . In the conclusions of the Cologne European Council the Heads of State and Government even established the broad outlines of the Charter ' s content . 
According to these conclusions , the Charter must contain three categories of rights . The first category is rights of freedom and equality and procedural rights , as guaranteed by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms . 
The second is the rights reserved for citizens of the European Union . The third is economic and social rights , as contained in the European Social Charter and the Community Charter of the Fundamental Social Rights of Workers , insofar as they do not merely establish objectives for action by the Union . 
The Commission considers that the Convention responsible for drawing up the Charter of Fundamental Rights must respect the mandate given by the Cologne European Council . 
Having said that , this does not mean that the Convention should be limited to a codifying role of simply compiling the existing rights from various sources . 
As I have said before in this House , the Commission is convinced that the Convention must be able , if necessary , to adapt and develop these rights in view of current circumstances , particularly technological and social changes . 
However , given the mandate and the final objective of the text to be submitted to the Heads of State and Government , this power must be exercised with caution and on a case - by - case basis . 
The rights conferred by this Charter will have at least two types of beneficiary . 
Some rights will apply to anyone present in the EU territory while others will benefit only citizens of the European Union . 
It may also be envisaged that some economic and social rights could be guaranteed only for citizens of the European Union and third - country nationals meeting certain conditions . 
It is not possible at this initial stage of the process of drawing up the Charter to prejudge its content in more detail . 
However , I can confirm that the principle of equal opportunity and equal treatment between men and women will certainly be included among the rights guaranteed by the future European Charter of Fundamental Rights . This is because this principle already figures among the rights guaranteed by the EC Treaty and by secondary legislation and because it undoubtedly constitutes a common constitutional tradition in the Member States . 
As I have also said before to this House , the Commission is favourable to inserting the Charter in the EU Treaty . 
However , we are fully aware that the final decision on this matter will fall to the Heads of State and Government . 
The difficult part , which will fall to the Convention , is therefore to draw up an ambitious and politically significant text which can be integrated as such into the Treaties . 
In its opinion on the holding of an Intergovernmental Conference to amend the Treaties , the Commission noted that the European Council must decide during the year 2000 on the inclusion of certain items on the IGC agenda , in particular the European Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
Commissioner , it is quite significant that at the beginning of this new century people in Europe , men and women , are being called upon to redefine their rights and obligations . 
We hope that this important Cologne Council decision will become a reality . 
Globalisation on the one hand and enlargement on the other , make it urgently necessary to define those rights . 
Seattle is a real source of concern in that context and we hope that the European Council in Nice will not be a wasted meeting . 
But if we are to secure the public ' s participation in this new planning , we would like to learn what plan the European bodies and specifically the Commission are proposing as the social and democratic model of Europe in the twenty - first century . 
I listened to your general guidelines and I would like to ask you what is the position of children , as entities in their own right , in the Commission ' s plans for the new model of society in the twenty - first century . 
Mr President , Mrs Kratsa - Tsagaropoulou , in my opinion , and as Mr Prodi said this morning , the drawing up of the Charter is an exercise with great political significance . This is because it shows that the Union places the fundamental rights of citizens at the top of the political concerns for the future of our common project . 
In this context , the criteria by which these rights are to be chosen must be clearly indicated . 
The essential criterion is the rights of citizens with regard to the European institutions , as contained in the European project enshrined in the Treaties of the European Union . 
I understand your concern about the rights of children . 
Many elements of our work , and particularly of my work as Commissioner for Justice and Home Affairs , involve protecting the rights of children . 
This is an area in which the principle of subsidiarity applies fully . 
Each Member State is principally responsible for defining its responsibilities towards children . 
As for the EU ' s responsibility , the rights of children must be recognised in the Charter according to the areas in which the Union can give added value to the promotion of the social and economic situation and even the citizenship , in its broadest sense , of children . 
I hope we can meet the challenge which the honourable Member has posed for the Commission and the whole Convention . 
Mr President , I have had the privilege of hearing the Commissioner a number of times on this issue and I very much agree with his approach . 
However , I should like to ask a slightly different question . 
We have just heard Commissioner Barnier say that he is anxious to communicate better with the people and to aim the information policy of the Commission towards the major issues that the Community is dealing with this year . 
Would the Commissioner argue for some of the information budget of the Commission to be put towards informing and consulting the citizens on this issue of a Citizens Charter ? 
It is very important that the people feel engaged in this process . 
I know that the Convention itself will do much in this area but it does not have the resources that the Commission has . 
Will the Commission look at using its information budget to ensure people are engaged in this debate ? 
It is the policy of the Commission to promote an open and wide debate on the Charter of Fundamental Rights , not only with non - governmental organisations but also with the citizens in a project as far - reaching as the Charter is . 
I can assure you that the Commission will do its best to promote the debate on the future Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
We can achieve the best of both worlds by having a clear text , a text that can be easily read by the citizens , and at the same time a text that can be used as a legal instrument . 
There is no contradiction between the two . 
The challenge we have is to bring them together in the final version of the Charter . 
I am very glad to know that I can count on your support here . 
Question No 40 by ( H - 0095 / 00 ) : 
Subject : Articles 6 . 1 , 7 . 1 and 7 . 2 of the Treaty on European Union Article 6 . 1 of the Treaty states that the Union is based on principles of liberty , democracy , respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms . 
It is clear from statements over the past years that Jörg Haider and the Freedom Party do not respect human rights and fundamental freedoms with respect to third country nationals and minority groups living in Austria . 
Therefore , will the Commission state when they intend to propose under Article 7 . 1 that there is ' the existence of a serious and persistent breach by a Member State of the principles mentioned in Article 6 . 1 . '  , and urge the Council acting by qualified majority to suspend certain rights deriving from the application of this Treaty to Austria including the voting rights of the representative of Austria in the Council ? 
