Mr President , I would , in turn , like to congratulate both the Commission , for making another step in the convergence process with regard to social security , and the rapporteur for the sound report he has compiled . 
The European Union ' s policy encompasses social policy in addition to economic and employment policy . 
So far , social policy has remained limited in terms of set - up and resources . 
But under the influence of the free movement of employees , of the internal market and of the euro , the labour markets are actually beginning to become integrated . 
This has undeniable repercussions on social protection which is tied in with labour to a large extent . 
Cross - border workers , employees on secondment and migrating employees , as well as job - seekers , students on placement and other students , experience hindrances in exercising the right of free movement . This is due to a lack of coordination and a lack of convergence in terms of social protection . 
In fact , the same phenomenon occurs in tax law . 
In order to combat distortion of competition and prevent dumping , the Commission has , in my opinion , developed a well - balanced approach which steers a midcourse between harmonisation and non - intervention . 
On the one hand , binding and enforceable rules apply to equal pay or additional old - age pensions and on the other hand , programmes are used to offer incentives with regard to non - discrimination or social exclusion . 
Based on a number of recommendations , reports and communications , the Commission has made another step in the convergence process by setting out objectives and by setting up a working party of high - ranking officials . 
Both proposals have already been accepted by the Council and it is thus a matter of endorsing this approach in order to be able to make an assessment in time , with knowledge of all facts and / or in order to establish to what extent and in what way social protection should be reorganised in the European Union . 
Indeed , expansion , globalisation , a sharp increase in the ageing population , individualisation and changes in family situations render such reorganisation inevitable . 
Denying that such shifts take place is tantamount to surrendering social protection . 
With regard to eurosceptics and nationalists , I would say that social protection within the boundaries of a Member State is not social and offers no protection . 
Indeed , if social protection were to be phased out as a result of competition , this would also harm social protection as a production factor . 
And less social protection means less purchasing power , fewer healthy employees and fewer happy employees . 
In respect of the super - Europeans , I would say that European social protection is neither attainable nor desirable . 
The discrepancies between the Member States are too immense in terms of provisions , rightful claimants , revenue or benefits , etc . 
It is thus impossible to bring all States into line . 
The path which the Commission is walking is , in fact , obvious . 
It has the advantage of clarity , and it can collect data and exchange experiences in order to agree on objectives and finely tune solid , comparative indicators and put forward recommendations . 
I endorse this view . 
I will give my support to the Commission and I hope that Lisbon will take us a step forward in this matter . 
Mr President , as others have done , I should also like to congratulate Mr Andersson for the report he has produced . 
He has done a great deal of work on behalf of Parliament in producing a wide - ranging consensus on what is , by any definition , a thorny issue , not just in this Parliament but in virtually every Member State . 
I also welcome the Commission ' s communication . 
It was slow in coming but well worth waiting for . 
It could be a landmark in the development of a social Europe , providing we take it seriously and do not allow individual Member States to baulk at the steps that must be taken to implement it . 
We can , and must , take the unique European social model we have and reform it to fit the twenty - first century , a century which is globalising fast . 
I am afraid the proposals that are being put forward by Mr Herman Schmid will not deal with that globalising world . 
To be successful we have to ensure that our economic policy , our employment policy and our social protection policy in its broadest sense , are integrated and that we deal with them as a whole . 
We have to ensure that our ECOFIN ministers and our employment ministers acknowledge that social affairs ministers have a contribution to make to the establishment of a society in Europe which is creative , has initiative and which will provide a high quality of life for all of our citizens . 
This is not an option for us any more . It is an imperative . 
European citizens will not settle for any less than a quality of life which befits them as human beings . 
We do not want the US model - a model which has spectacularly failed to create the employment that is necessary to provide a decent quality of life . 
What it has done is increase dramatically the number of working poor in the United States . 
That is not what we want to do in Europe . 
We have the traditions of solidarity in Europe and we have the experience of a better way of doing things . 
But we have to grasp the tools to do that . 
I therefore urge that we not only implement the high - level group as proposed by the Commission but also go further and have a Luxembourg - type process so that we have an integrated approach to this issue of social protection . 
Mr President , Commissioner , this is one of the social areas to which the European Union ought to pay much more attention . 
Macroeconomic policies , the stability pact and the criteria for nominal convergence have put a brake on modernising social protection which would improve the quality of people ' s lives , specifically by means of a significant increase in pensions and pension schemes , particularly of the minimum pensions , and through fighting social exclusion . 
This situation is particularly serious in countries such as Portugal where the minimum pensions and pension schemes are barely more than half of the minimum national wage which in turn , is the lowest in the whole of Europe . 
Therefore , while the Commission does not accept the need to amend its macroeconomic policies to create more jobs of quality , with employee rights , which is a fundamental basis for maintaining and modernising a solid , public social protection system , we harbour serious doubts as to its position . 
Although the Andersson report has gathered some positive proposals , including some that we put forward ourselves , we are still critical of some of the bases for the Commission ' s proposal and we still have concerns about the strategy for modernising social protection . 
Mr President , in my previous life I ran two manufacturing businesses , one in the United Kingdom and one in the Netherlands . 
As the UK business grew , we invested in more people , as the Dutch business grew we invested in more machinery . 
The simple reason for this was that social costs in the Netherlands were just too high in comparison . 
I am in favour of social protection , I am in favour of the original Commission document , but I do not want to see people priced out of jobs because social protection costs become unrealistically high . 
That is why in committee I proposed some form of business impact assessment , so that costs and risks to jobs could be taken into account , and the EPP - DE Group supported this amendment . 
But I must record that other groups , led by the PSE Group , guided by my countryman , Stephen Hughes , voted this out . 
I accept that Mr Andersson ' s report is very well - intentioned , and I respect him for the work he has done , but in my view the way the report defines and promotes social convergence would drive social costs higher throughout the EU . 
This would put more jobs at risk and also put at risk the credibility of this House by showing how remote we are from the real world . 
I therefore urge this House to reject the full report and let the original Commission proposal , which was very well - balanced , stand unamended . 
Mr President , we are unable to vote for this report . 
The European Union should actually place social issues at the heart of the building of Europe . 
Social rights should determine economic choices , and not the other way around . 
This is why , when it comes to social protection , we are opposed to schemes copied from the Luxembourg process which run counter to this rationale : broad economic guidelines , then convergence criteria and , finally , social issues , dealt with as the last resort . 
The European Union should proclaim one general principle , to wit , that the social rights acquired in Member States may not be restricted . 
Any Community intervention should aim to complement and to harmonise existing guarantees according to the highest common denominator . 
In order to strengthen the funding of social security systems , we need a policy of general wage increase , the establishment of a minimum legal wage in each Member State . 
In order to fight poverty , entitlement to an income and to employment are inalienable rights . 
Finally , in order to avoid health being treated in any way as a commodity , the European Union should declare itself clearly opposed to pension funds and to a situation where private insurance companies have access to the health system . 
I sincerely hope , in conclusion , that social Europe cannot be satisfied with mere words and pious hopes . 
For millions of people the situation is too tragic for that . 
Mr President , Commissioner , the aim of developing a coordinated strategy for modernising social protection in the European Union is certainly an admirable one . 
Just as the launching of a European convergence strategy on employment and labour market policies at the Luxembourg Summit was commendable . 
The labour market and social protection are , in fact , two sides of the same coin , that require harmonised policies and rules . 
If the labour market functions by means of certain levels of employment , flexibility and salary discipline , then it is impossible for the welfare state and social protection not to function , and vice versa . 
Until recently , the European countries fixed , it could be said in an autarkic way , the rules governing the functioning and financing of the two markets . 
Budgetary and exchange rate policies were responsible for maintaining internal and external stability . 
With the Maastricht Treaty and the single currency , budgetary discipline became tighter and recourse to devaluation ceased as a means of endeavouring to restore marginal competitiveness . 
The structural and economic differences of the various countries cannot , therefore , be rebalanced through budget deficits and trade . 
That being the case , in the absence of complete labour mobility inside the Union , and without a redistributive fiscal policy at federal level , it is left to the labour markets and welfare systems to provide what degree of flexibility there is to remedy both structural and economic disequilibria , the so - called exogenous asymmetric shocks . 
And therein lies the paradox . 
Political and monetary convergence in Europe unavoidably entails convergence of the respective rules of the game in the labour market and welfare systems . But , at the same time , the single currency and the absence of labour mobility , as well as of a redistributive fiscal policy , force us into a situation of non - convergence in terms of salaries and welfare , in order to compensate for the differences in marginal productivity at national and regional levels . 
Hypocrisy and fine - sounding words such as convergence , benchmarking , modernisation and concerted action are not going to extricate us from those contradictions . 
Either the European Union becomes a genuine federal state with a genuine redistribution of resources , genuine free movement of workers and therefore - but only at that point - common labour and welfare regimes , or it would be better not to deceive and be deceived by hopeless paths to convergence which sound impressive but which , in reality , only cause harm , above all to the most vulnerable . 
That is something we would do well to recognise . 
Mr President , unlike several of those who have spoken in today ' s debate , I am inclined to endorse the Andersson report , one of the reasons for this being that I can see clear differences between the report and the Commission ' s communications . 
In particular , I am referring to the fact that this report - and I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this - defends the European social model ' s approach , which is one based on solidarity . 
I would like to highlight the clear positions adopted against social dumping , together with the right to a basic level of social security , the goal of social convergence , and , in particular , the quite specific points that have been made about equal opportunities for women being the primary objectives of this social policy . 
I can certainly see that it has its shortcomings in failing to undertake a sufficiently rigorous analysis of macroeconomic policy within the European Union , and it is this policy which stands in the way of the aforementioned solidarity - based revival of the European social state , model . All in all , though , I deem this report to be worthwhile . 
Mr President , I have taken the floor in order to reaffirm the need for the modernisation of social protection , which is much more then simply one more step in the construction of Europe . 
This message is contained in the excellent report by Mr Andersson . 
Europe , the European Union , although it is very strong in economic and political terms , will remain shaky , weak and limited , perhaps inadequate , if we are not able to strengthen it from a social point of view . 
I believe that the latter means the possibility of employment for those who require it , but also decisive action in support of the socially disadvantaged . 
Bearing in mind that everybody has the right to social protection and a minimum guaranteed social income , I believe that we must not forget about those people who were not born in the European Union . 
Let us not forget that , in 1999 , 717 , 000 people came here to compensate for our low birth rate . 
In social terms , it is therefore absolutely essential that we have an immigration policy with a social conscience , as President Gutierres recently stated in Spain . 
We must be very aware of the situation of those people whose prospects of finding work are threatened or reduced by economic changes , mergers , take - overs , new technologies etc . 
What is required here is a training policy to qualify and prepare people for new jobs , for those who already have a job and for those who need a second opportunity , because sometimes , as the title of the film states , the postman always rings twice . 
In my humble opinion , it is the responsibility of all European , national and regional governments to ensure that he rings on more than one occasion . 
It seems to me , Commissioner , that the Commission has the responsibility to promote and coordinate these opportunities . 
Mr President , I should like to congratulate Mr Andersson on his really excellent work , which is the reason why there is broader agreement , and I also thank the Members of Parliament involved for their contribution . 
I would like to make a number of comments about what has been said . 
First , I must stress that the debate about social protection issues began several years ago among the European bodies and since 1995 there has been the first statement entitled :  " The future of social protection " and there have been statements from the European Parliament , those of Mrs Weiler and Mr Pronk . 
Today , we have the statement by Mr Andersson . 
I believe we have made considerable progress since we are now talking about the modernisation of social protection . 
The second point is that we must bear in mind the legal basis by virtue of which the European Commission can operate . 
You know very well that the Treaty provides no legal basis for policies at European level , but there is the agreement expressed at the last Council , there is agreement that work should begin on coordination and the exchange of experience , as well as the exchange of successful programmes between the Member States . 
The third observation is that as regards the four issues on which the specific statement focuses , which relate to paid work , the sustainability of pension systems , social convergence and lastly quality in health care , there is a horizontal approach to the issue of women because in each of these categories - as the speakers said - there are special problems relating to women and those problems should in many cases be addressed by separate policies . 
The next point concerns the specific action we have undertaken . 
As you know , a high - level group has already been set up by the Portuguese Presidency , which will present its first report to the Summit Conference in June . 
The Portuguese Presidency has focused on two things : sustainable pension systems and social accession . 
I believe that the proposal for a corresponding group at Parliamentary level is very positive and can contribute towards our progress to the next step after approval of the said high - level group . 
Concerning some remarks about the role of social protection systems , the cost of social protection and the part played by those systems in the competitiveness of the Member States , I should like to say that in Europe policies strive to combine competitiveness and social cohesion . 
Of course , we must take due note of the issue of competitiveness , but social protection too must be planned in a way that makes it a factor of economic growth and employment . 
I think the statement ' s content makes this clear . 
Ladies and gentlemen , the aim is that in the next year , and after a unanimous decision by the Council , we should progress to a first level of coordination , exchange of views , listing of social problems and creation of a data base for the better coordination of policies . 
As many of the speakers have said , I believe a first important step has been taken . 
Already at the Intergovernmental Conference , social policy issues are being addressed more broadly and I believe we are in a new phase , in which social policy will , to a large extent , become a European policy . 
Thank you , Mrs Diamantopoulou . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 . 30 a . m . 
WIPO treaty
The next item is the recommendation ( A5 - 0008 / 2000 ) by Mrs Cederschiöld , on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market , on the proposal for a Council Decision on the approval , on behalf of the European Community , of the WIPO Copyright Treaty and the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty [ COM ( 1998 ) 249 - C5 - 0222 / 1999 - 1998 / 0141 ( AVC ) ] . 
Mr President , we are now taking a stance on an important issue , an international agreement , which may influence the prospects for prosperity of many Member States . 
In my own country , Sweden , one of our biggest export industries is affected , namely the music and sound recording industry . 
It is about artists ' entitlement to copyright or to protection for their artistic products . 
It is about the WCT ( World Copyright Treaty ) and the WPPT ( World Performance and Phonograms Treaty ) . 
Without protection under intellectual property law , creativity is inhibited and financial incentives obstructed . 
Forgeries are big business . 
It is estimated that , in Europe alone , income of EUR 4 . 5 billion is lost because of piracy . The problem affects a lot of jobs in the entertainment industry . 
This is an historic agreement because the EU is the contracting party . This is the case , in spite of the fact that it is not the EU , but only the Member States , which belong to the organisation . 
There exists a special clause which requires Parliament ' s assent in two cases . 
With regard to the present agreement , both these conditions are fulfilled . A new institution is being created , an assembly which , in the future , will monitor the agreement and its consequences . 
The agreement also concerns questions dealt with in accordance with the co - decision - making procedure . 
Parliament must therefore give its assent , because the agreement concerns its sphere of competence . 
The future will show whether it is right , by means of this new parliamentary assembly , to reduce the Commission ' s powers regarding these issues . 
Parliament cannot , in any case , at present do anything about the matter . 
The agreement complements the Berne Convention in regard to literary works . 
It creates international legal protection in connection with distribution , sale , rental , public reproduction and the making available of works . It also creates protection for software and databases . 
There are problems regarding the term " author "  . For example , it has not been defined . 
Another issue , which is somewhat problematic , is that of intermediate storage . 
This too has not been solved . It is dealt with by means of a general clause which does not provide any definition . 
If no definitions are provided in questions such as this , it can lead to their being dealt with differently around the world , with no uniformity of approach . That would not be a good thing . 
The question of arbitration procedures is still to be resolved , too . 
Parliament cannot change these details . 
We can only say yes or no to the agreement as it stands . Yes or no to an agreement which contains deficiencies . 
Both myself , as rapporteur , and the committee think we ought to say yes . We have here an agreement which , in spite of its defects , constitutes a significant step forward for the issue of copyright . 
We have of course discussed at length whether Parliament and whether the EU should have powers in regard to patents under intellectual property law . 
I think they should have . 
However , there is still no Community legislation in the areas of patent law and protection of designs , and there needs to be . 
A European patent is in the offing , and that is a good thing . 
Now , the Union and the Member States are combining to take the first steps in the area of intellectual property law . 
It is good for us that we have the power to do this , in spite of the fact that we are not completely satisfied . 
In that way , we can act as a model for the applicant States . 
We have a direct financial interest in these issues being settled before enlargement . 
I want to thank the Commission for its efforts in this area and for the cooperation with the Commission ' s officials , which has been quite excellent . 
Finally , I also want to thank this Chamber for being so good as to listen to these words at this late hour . 
Mr President , I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur , Mrs Cederschiöld , on her very serious work . 
She has clearly identified the problems created by the approval of the World Intellectual Property Organisation ' s treaties . 
Their approval is undoubtedly an historic occasion because for the first time the European Union is participating as a contracting party in an international treaty that governs the field of intellectual property . 
It is a fact that the road has been a long one , mainly because of the legal problem that arose in connection with the extent to which the Community could be considered to have absolute competence in matters of intellectual property . 
The problem has been overcome . 
Today we are asked to give our assent in effect to two treaties : the treaty on intellectual property and the treaty on interpretations , performances and phonograms . 
As regards the first of these , it seems to provide an effective solution for the long - standing demands by the creators of artistic and literary works , while at the same time creating a framework of protection in relation to issues such as distribution , rental and the presentation of their works to the public . 
As regards the second treaty on performances and phonograms , it must be stressed that for the first time an international treaty signed by the Community as well recognises exclusive rights for performers , interpreters and artists for reproduction , distribution and rental to the public , and the right to fair remuneration for radio broadcasts . 
In that context a noteworthy and important step forward is the treaty ' s treatment of the right of reproduction . 
Even though , as the Commission says , the texts of the treaties do not contain special provisions to regulate all the respective issues raised by technological development , it can nevertheless be said that within the legislative framework created , performing or interpreting artists enjoy broader protection than that accorded by the Treaty of Rome or even by the Community directives . 
Interpreting Article 7 of the Treaty , we can conclude that the application of protection for reproduction does not only mean protection for the reproduction of the interpretations or performances themselves as such that are embodied in recordings , but also protection against copying , whether in whole or in part and whether permanent or temporary , and protection against any other form of production . 
It would be appropriate , however , for us also to mention some points which should be at the focus of future WIPO work or the work of other diplomatic conferences . 
First , there is the right of distribution as referred to in Article 8 ( 1 ) . The option accorded to States by the next paragraph of the same article to regulate the exhaustion of the above right is dangerous and is one of the Treaty ' s most negative points , since there is nothing to prevent States from enacting special conditions for the exhaustion of the right , a thing that would be to the disadvantage of artists . 
As regards rental rights , on interpretation of Article 9 , we can conclude that the exclusive right of rental belongs to artists , interpreters or performers , only if this is laid down by national legislation . 
I think this conflicts with Article 13 . 
To conclude , I want to say that ratification of these treaties opens a horizon for property rights . 
In the 21st century , the century of knowledge and the invisible economy , intellectual property will be the dominant form of property and will , in many cases , be more important than traditional property . 
We are at the dawn of an age in which new legislation will be created , where the right to utilise intellectual property will clash head on with the public interest in terms of its dissemination and exploitation by the public at large . 
Mr President , I should like to thank our rapporteur for this excellent report which , nonetheless , concludes that , as a Community , our accession to these two WIPO treaties must not boil down to a mere institutional development , however important that may be , i . e . the opportunity for the European Community and the WIPO Assembly to work together . 
This ratification is also necessary in the light of the enlargement of Europe . 
However , an objective is emerging behind this issue of Community accession , one I find as yet too theoretical but one that some Member States , nonetheless , find too offensive . 
This is the affirmation of a European cultural policy . In this connection , I expect our three institutions , Parliament , the Commission and the Council , to be in agreement . 
Cultural policy means , in particular , defending the role of the arts , recognising the role of authors and setting high cultural standards . 
In addition , at a time when Europe faces the task of defining a new policy on copyright and neighbouring rights , there is an urgent need - as has just been pointed out several times - to define and redefine what exactly an author is . 
Our definitions are still too vague and new technologies now make it essential for us to clarify them . 
