Mr President , Commissioner , the adoption of the WIPO agreements was a very positive step in the direction of the global information society . 
The agreements crystallise the decades - old legacy of copyright , and they represent a precisely considered and balanced solution for the regulation of copyright and neighbouring rights . 
The entry into force of the treaties and their final form is , however , in addition to this recommendation , dependent on implementation by the parties themselves . 
In the United States the WIPO Treaty has already entered into force , having been enacted into law by means of the Digital Millennium Corporate Act and there they have managed to retain the delicate balance of the Treaty by means of this legislation . 
The EU too must proceed in its legislative work in accordance with what is agreed in the WIPO . 
It is worrying that the position adopted by the previous Parliament does not support this balanced WIPO system . 
The opinion on the copyright directive at first reading was very distorted , and , furthermore , the balance is moving in a harmful direction from the point of view of Europeans . 
The recommendations that have been made will not improve the status of culture in Europe , on the contrary . 
Parliament ' s amendments would mainly improve opportunities for the media enterprises that are well established in the market to move their old , in excess of 80 % market share to a new environment with rigid , excessive copyright regulations . 
I am not now speaking of Charlotte Cederschiöld ' s recommendation , which is an excellent paper , but of the matters of copyright that the previous Parliament discussed . 
On one point of detail , I would like to thank Mrs Cederschiöld for having clarified , for example , the concept of so - called temporary copies in her opinion . 
There is no consciously adopted position in the WIPO Treaty on temporary copies . 
If these , which technically speaking are copies , were covered by the protection in force it would make the transfer of information - as the recommendation quite rightly states - expensive and complicated for no good reason . 
It would be as if the deliveryman had to pay a copyright fee whenever he carried a book to be read by the purchaser . 
The real benefit of culture is that art and knowledge can be transferred safely and easily from the artist directly to the user , the consumer . 
The new operational environment is , above all , a huge opportunity to create and spread culture in a different way than ever before . 
It is essential that the interests of all parties are taken into account . 
Parliament has tried to take account of this in its own recommendation . 
 . 
 ( NL ) Mr President , I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on the work that she has carried out . 
The Commission is under the impression that she has worked fast and effectively . 
This is important . 
It befits the Commission to express its gratitude towards the rapporteur . 
I would like to present the Commission ' s conclusion to you without any further ado : it agrees with the conclusions of the draft recommendation and , therefore , with ratification by this Parliament . 
I would like to stress the importance of both Treaties . 
Both the WIPO Copyright Treaty and the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty constitute progress in the international protection of copyright and neighbouring rights and are , as such , a considerable improvement on the Berne Convention and the Treaty of Rome . 
Both Treaties contribute towards a high level of protection for works and other matters , but offer the public access to the contents of these via electronic networks . 
The two Treaties explicitly permit the Community to become a party to the Treaties and to play an important role in managing them . 
Consequently , approval of the Treaties by the Community is of major importance , because it illustrates that the Community sets great store by intellectual property rights . 
In addition , assent leads to more widespread international recognition of the European Union ' s role in terms of copyright . 
At international level , there is a great deal of support for treaties entering into force more swiftly . These have now been ratified by twelve or thirteen WIPO Member States , including the United States . 
The entry into force of treaties largely depends on the European Union , because thirty ratification acts are required in order for treaties to enter into effect , and these acts that are signed by the European Union and the Member States , including associated countries , are of vital importance in order to reach this number . 
The developing countries , too , expect the European Union to bring about ratification swiftly because this would give a strong signal worldwide . 
In this context , Parliament has already played a key role in the discussions on the draft directive on copyright in the Information Society , which led to the approval of the Barzanti report in February 1999 . 
This directive is the necessary counterpart of the proposed decision and largely embraces the key principles of the WIPO Treaties . 
The European Parliament must now follow once again the exceptional assent procedure of Article 300 ( 3 ) . 
It is vitally important to give the correct signal to the outside world , in the form of this recommendation . 
In a nutshell , I would like to reiterate the Commission ' s conclusion here : it supports the draft recommendation and hopes that it will be of key importance to anyone with an interest in intellectual property . 
Thank you , Commissioner . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 . 30a . m . 
 ( The sitting was closed at 11 . 55 p . m . ) 
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
The Minutes of yesterday ' s sitting have been distributed . 
Are there any comments ? 
Mr President , I see in the Minutes that two Members spoke yesterday about delayed flights to Strasbourg on Monday . 
I would like to add that the flight from Amsterdam ' s Schipol airport was also delayed and then cancelled . 
We were diverted to Basel - Mulhouse Airport . 
We were told that a bus would meet us there on arrival . In fact , it took 45 minutes after we arrived before the bus appeared at the airport . 
We finally got here , on Monday at 8 . 30 p . m . , after some of us had spent more than 12 hours travelling . 
This sort of service and difficulty in getting to Strasbourg on a Monday is quite hopeless . 
If the French Government insists that we continue to meet in Strasbourg , it could at least ensure , where flights are diverted to Basle , that buses arrive on time to meet the diverted passengers , otherwise it is quite pointless for us to try to arrive here on Monday and attend to any kind of business . 
I wonder if that could be added to the Minutes . 
Mr President , I was booked on the same flight and I am rather embarrassed to admit that the airline was KLM , our national airline company . 
I hope that next time , also if any other airline company is involved , things will run more smoothly . 
 ( The Minutes were approved ) 
Mr President , I would just like to draw your attention to something that concerns today ' s agenda . 
We decided on Monday that the Council ' s statement on the Fiftieth Anniversary of the Geneva Convention was to be postponed . 
I would just like to clarify that we will only be talking about the other items on this agenda today , and not about the Geneva Convention . 
This item has been postponed until the next part - session in March . 
It was erroneously included in today ' s agenda . 
Mr Swoboda , I can confirm what you have just said and there is , in fact , a printing error . 
The document that has been distributed contains inaccuracies , because the decision has been taken to postpone the debate . 
Mr President , I just want to say that , as I was walking in this morning , I noticed two people smoking outside the Hemicycle . 
The smell is absolutely disgusting ! 
Can you please do something about it ? 
I cannot do anything about it myself , but you are quite right . We need a quick way of educating people , including those who do not obey the rules decided upon in this House . 
Regarding the problems caused by air travel delays , perhaps everybody who has had difficulty reaching Strasbourg for the present part - session should form a small group - although I am not sure that it will be small - to discuss the precise nature of the problems encountered . 
Coherence of EU policies with development
The next item is the statement by the Council and the Commission on the coherence of EU policies with development . 
