We see it as positive that an attempt is being made to reverse the trend towards water degradation , which is most alarming and which governments all too often tend to sweep under the carpet . 
We all know that water is a commodity without which mankind cannot live and that it is imperative that its quality should be preserved . 
But it is also essential to bear in mind that the various elements of water policy cannot be separated , and that action on this aspect will affect all the others . 
The " physico - chemical and ecological quality of water " was highlighted during the debate and in the proposals , and the adverse effects of other aspects was , at best , touched upon marginally . 
It is essential to be aware of the widely varying situations in different Member States , such as specific climatic conditions , water regimes and fluctuations in them over the year , the social , economic and ecological effects of applying standards , and also of the failure to do so . 
It was because of our concern about these issues that we disagreed with some of the proposals put forward by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy , and in particular those relating to an excessively restrictive timetable and to the scant attention paid to social and agricultural aspects , which are very important for a country like Portugal , which suffers from water shortage problems and also inadequate socio - economic development . 
But we also believe that , in many cases , the proposals put forward by the Commission and the Council represent too much of a step backwards , which is why we would like to see a vote balanced between the various requirements in the proposals presented to us . 
 .  ( FR ) We are disappointed by the Council ' s common position on this proposal for a framework directive . 
It is minimalist on a number of points , especially with regard to the dates of entry into force of far too many provisions and the number of , and conditions for , implementing the derogations . 
However , the main problem is with the definition of the objective which the European Union wishes to pursue with this text . 
The objective is of course to create , first and foremost , a clear general framework which will allow the law in this area to be simplified . 
However the Union should be seeking , beyond that , to improve the quality of both surface and groundwater . 
Public health and the supply of drinking water are at stake , as are biological quality and diversity and the conservation of rural areas and species . 
From this point of view , the common position is weak . 
I should like to see our Parliament defend a more ambitious position than the Council ' s position , but I should also like that position to be equally credible . 
The " zero input " and " zero pollution " requirement , including for substances naturally present in water , is not realistic . 
I am not one of those MEPs who thinks that it is essential to adopt " extremist " amendments at second reading with the sole aim of gaining room for manoeuvre in preparation for negotiations with the Council of Ministers . 
On the contrary , I object to this systematically applied strategy . 
It damages Parliament . 
Our messages to our citizens and to the Council are muddled and lack credibility . 
Overly strict , unrealistic environmental objectives will not be applied because they are unattainable . 
Is that the message we want to send out ? 
There is one other specific point which is dear to me : Member States should be able , if they so wish , to set up trans - national water transfers . 
This type of project complies with the principle of regional cohesion and solidarity , which we have always defended , and , as such , should enjoy the widespread support of the European Union in the context of the promotion of trans - European networks and regional policy ( through the Structural Funds ) . 
I would like to remind the House that we adopted an own initiative report on the technical feasibility of trans - European water networks two years ago and I would be most obliged if the European Commission could shortly tell Parliament what action it has taken on that report . 
 .  ( ES ) We have seen a report concerned with water quality in Europe transformed into an instrument of commercial war . 
We all agree that ensuring water quality is a hugely important objective , above all , given the adverse effects of developing a model of accelerated industrial growth on the natural environment . 
It is clear that this model ' s logic of private profit has been harmful , and therefore the ' polluter pays ' principle is a suitable way of dealing with these consequences . 
However , apart from these principles , there is the consideration that water , as a common resource , cannot be subjected to the rules of the market . 
Surprisingly , I imagine with the best of intentions , this ecological objective has become an instrument of commercial war by making consumers , and especially the agricultural sector , responsible for the price of installations and the procedures for ensuring water quality . 
In fact , water becomes simply one more product subject to the laws of the market . 
This means that the neoliberal model now reigns in the field of water . 
By failing to distinguish countries and regions where water is abundant , and is therefore not a problem , from regions where drought and low rainfall make it a scarce commodity , stifling the chances of any economic and social development , we are perverting the ecological principle and turning it into a weapon . 
In the same way it is somewhat ironic that we are hindering the possibility of sharing this commodity , which is scarce in some areas , while regions where there is abundant water are giving advice on austerity with regard to its use , to those who live in drought areas . 
As a result of this lack of sensitivity and solidarity , my vote has been consistent with what I have said , as an MEP from one of the dry Mediterranean agricultural regions - although one with prospects - namely , the Region of Murcia . 
 . On behalf of the European Parliament Labour Party , I wish to indicate that while we have supported the major part of the Lienemann report , we have certain reservations . 
The timetable set in the report of 2020 is unrealistic and impracticable , but the timetable set by the Council of 2034 is too far in the distance . 
We believe therefore that conciliation will set a more realistic date . 
We have voted against Amendments Nos 25 and 72 which would require the achievement of minimal anthroprogenic pollution in all groundwater . 
We believe this requirement is unrealistic in view of the very high cost and extremely long timescales involved in restoration to a near pristine standard . 
The foregoing is the reason for our vote . 
 .  ( FR ) Water is a renewable but limited natural resource and needs to be properly managed . 
The framework directive on water policy will become the cornerstone of Community policy in this area . 
It has clear , ambitious objectives . 
We share them . 
It sets environmental parameters close to zero . 
But we feel that it would be wiser not to set unrealistic deadlines which neither our governments nor our industries will be able to meet . 
We need a timetable , by all means , but a more gradual timetable . 
The legal obligation to achieve a zero input situation , i . e . to stop discharges within 20 years , would in fact mean a ban on all identified substances . 
Such provisions may well cause serious problems in cross - border areas and in candidate countries , thereby complicating enlargement . 
I should like , naturally , to refer to a specific sector to which I am very closely attached , i . e . agriculture , the main water - consuming sector . 
Agriculture must accept its share of ' polluter pays ' charges , and has in fact already started to do so , but account must also be taken of its special characteristics and constraints , especially in arid regions . 
As regards the amendments concerning radioactive substances , I am of course in favour of controls , but the question arises of the legal basis , which comes under the Euratom Treaty . 
Andersson report ( A5 - 0033 / 2000 ) 
The Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities has not been able to vote in favour of the Andersson report . 
This does , of course , contain a number of good observations . For example , it is acknowledged on page 15 of the explanatory statement that " the different levels of development and traditions in the field of social security in the Member States make it impossible to bring about uniform harmonisation of the Member States ' social security systems "  . 
Now , the concept of " uniform harmonisation " is one of those muddled expressions which totally obfuscates the integration process in question . 
It is also true , as it states in the explanatory statement , that harmonisation could be damaging as " it might place greater demands on weaker Member States at the same time as competitive considerations might exert pressure on more socially developed countries to cut back on social security . 
No - one would benefit from this type of harmonisation "  . 
The situation , however , is that a social model is being established whose real purpose is harmonisation , and uniform harmonisation into the bargain . 
Paragraph D points out that " the Union may provide added value by adoption of proper binding and effective convergence criteria "  , and the report goes on to emphasise that the development of this convergence process is to be promoted by means of joint talks between the Ecofin Council and the Social Affairs and Employment Councils . 
Finally , paragraph 7 emphasises that " the social convergence process must be accompanied by an effective and ambitious fiscal coordination "  . 
And , in this regard , we approach the heart of the matter . 
This project , with its social harmonisation , does not constitute social policy . 
Instead , it is an extension to the EU ' s EMU project , which is of quite special interest to the three countries which remain outside EMU and can rescue themselves from the sinking ship , namely Great Britain , Sweden and Denmark . 
It is therefore important for us to emphasise that we cannot support a proposal whose essential rationale is to extend the EMU project . 
 ) Mr President , I voted for the Council ' s strategy for modernising social protection because , in my view , it constitutes a step towards the establishment of European social and pensions legislation , although it does not actually go the whole way . 
I was sorry to hear what was said in the previous explanation of vote , since I believe that , in essence , the report aims to provide much better protection for the elderly , despite the fact that , as we all know , the governments of the 15 Member States would like to reduce pensions to the minimum . 
I hope that Parliament will soon have the authority to legislate on pensions . 
The elderly are waiting for the European Parliament to make it possible for them to live more comfortably and with greater dignity than they do now . 
The countries who have made less progress in this field should attain the same level as the countries within the European Union that guarantee better social protection . 
 .  ( DA ) The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have voted today in favour of the report by our Swedish Social Democratic colleague , Jan Andersson , on the Commission ' s communication concerning a coordinated strategy for modernising social security . 
The starting point for the Commission ' s communication is the implementation of EMU which , with its demand for stability and growth , creates the basis for the Member States ' being able to maintain their social security arrangements . 
The report states that modernisation does not mean a reduction in the level of social protection but , rather , better use of available resources . 
We also notice that , according to the explanatory statement , modernisation does not mean harmonisation of social security arrangements , either , and that harmonisation might be downright damaging as it might place greater demands on weaker Member States at the same time that competitive considerations might exert pressure on others to cut back . 
No - one would benefit from this situation . 
Both in the communication from the Commission and in the report by Mr Andersson , it is emphasised that it is the Member States which have responsibility for and , therefore , also determine the content of , social security arrangements . 
Cooperation on these matters within the framework of the EU should create added value , based on the exchange of experiences and the reciprocal evaluation of the way in which policies are developing , the aim being to define best practice . 
 . 
 ( SV ) We consider that the report contains many practical proposals , which we support , but we are very critical of the convergence approach which permeates the report . 
In particular , we oppose the sections which deal with fiscal harmonisation and with the Commission ' s becoming involved in telling the Member States what to do ( see , for example , paragraph 7 ) . 
We wish to emphasise that the sphere of social and social security policy should chiefly be the domain of the Member States , even if the enlargement of the EU requires a greater degree of coordination than there has been in the past . 
 .  ( FR ) The current difficulties faced by our social security systems derive mainly from a shortage of income as the result of unemployment , poverty and an ageing population rather than from excessive spending . 
The policies of the European Union also have much to answer for in this situation . 
Of course we need to modernise these systems . 
In France , in particular , we need to stop making labour alone fund medical insurance and pensions . 
We also need to reform archaic management methods which create injustices , chaos and waste . 
More importantly , we need a family policy to promote demographic growth and an economic , monetary and fiscal policy to promote growth and reconquer the internal market so that we can create jobs . 
The Commission and the Andersson report are not proposing a social policy ; they are giving Brussels exorbitant decision - making powers as regards funding , i . e . as regards the organisation and the provision of social protection services in the countries of Europe , which is why we voted against this text . 
Social protection should be an expression , first and foremost , of national solidarity and it comes first and foremost , exclusively in fact , under the jurisdiction of the nation state . 
Social protection should be based on the principle of national and Community preferences . 
Otherwise it is merely the financial processing , at the expense and to the detriment of European citizens , of the intolerable social situations which result from immigration . 
 .  ( SV ) We have abstained from voting for Jan Andersson ' s report on a coordinated strategy for modernising social security . 
We are basically well disposed towards the European Union . 
As Swedish Liberals , we see European integration as an opportunity to find solutions to cross - border problems such as the environment , trade , movement across borders , human rights and conflict management . 
In these areas , Europe ' s democracies have a chance to show the world that cooperation leads to peace and increased prosperity . 
We also believe in the principle of subsidiarity whereby decisions are to be taken as close as possible to those they affect . 
That is why we are actively pursuing the issue of a constitution for the European Union where the distribution of responsibilities is clear for all to see . 
It must be perfectly clear to all citizens that the EU will only become involved in those issues it is best qualified to deal with , which is to say cross - border issues . 
All other questions ought to be dealt with at local , regional or national levels . 
Social policy is an example of an area in which the EU ought only to have limited powers , except where it is a question of freedom of movement for people within the Union . 
Each Member State ought to have full responsibility for , and the right autonomously to decide upon , its social security systems . 
Health care , child care and care of the elderly are clear examples of areas which are not obviously transnational . 
The same applies to labour market policy . 
We do not believe that common European legislation in these areas is a solution to the problems involved in designing systems of social security . 
For us , it is important that the EU should instead concentrate on just a few areas in which it can really be of use . 
That does not , however , prevent the Member States from cooperating and exchanging ideas in the social sphere . 
Equality and social security are issues which are traditionally high on our Liberal agenda . 
We wholeheartedly support , at national level , many of the ideas presented in Mr Andersson ' s report . 
 . 
 ( IT ) The report gives a clear impression that the concerted strategy for modernising social protection in Europe will be accompanied by an analogous process of cohesion . We therefore view it with interest and hope and commend its intentions . 
Numerous policies have already gone in this direction , albeit laboriously , and many more still need to do so before Europe , in terms of subsidiarity , is seen as one house , not only by its own people , but also by those in the candidate countries . 
Moreover , the European welfare systems have always played a constructive role in the social and democratic development of each nation . Consequently , if such systems are to continue to sustain development in the future , in light of the economic and employment changes taking place , as well as the requirements of society , modernisation is absolutely essential . 
There are three main aspects that need to be highlighted . The first is that economic policy , employment and social protection should be strictly interdependent in a way that is directly proportional . 
The second concerns the management of welfare systems and those who operate them . 
Nowadays , it is becoming more commonplace , as well as efficient , to operate complementary and integrated protection schemes . 
But , in our view , that does not mean that the role of the public authority should be reduced , either as regards the universality or , we hope , the quality of the basic social protection provided . 
It is , to a large extent , a principle of justice that imbues both health and pension schemes as well as social assistance , where , in particular , strategic coordination by the public authority is essential , even though it has been modernised . 
The third aspect concerns the principle of subsidiarity that underpins the European Union . 
Today , a common strategy for social protection is sadly lacking , and the current systems are , in the main , run according to the actions and unity of purpose of individual Member States . 
Therefore , any modernisation process has to take account of economic , employment and social protection differences between the various countries , whether Member States or candidate countries . 
What is required is that those responsible for the modernisation process , which continues to be closely linked to the promotion of social cohesion despite the underlying differences , should have the will and the know - how to ensure that changes are for the better and not for the worse . 
It is , after all , a matter of civilisation , progress and common dignity for the present European Union and a future enlarged community . 
 .  ( SV ) The basic values common to the Member States of the European Union are based upon democracy , human freedoms and rights , and a social market economy . 
These values must be given expression in the form of solidarity with the weaker groups in our society and in the world around us . 
In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity , it is the Member States themselves which devise their own social security systems . 
Inhabitants of countries in the European Union ought , nonetheless , to be able to benefit from a minimum network of social protection , irrespective of which country they live in . 
The report seeks " effective and ambitious fiscal coordination "  , without going on to define more specifically what this means . 
As we see it , such a position constitutes unduly large interference in national fiscal policy and cannot , therefore , be supported . 
We are therefore voting against paragraph 7 of the report . 
The report emphasises the social dimension of European cooperation , which is something to be welcomed . 
It is nonetheless important to clarify what role the EU is to play , and not to play , with regard to social security . 
Clarification of this kind is missing from the report , which is unfortunate . 
 .  ( EL ) On reading the Commission ' s statement on social protection , which is animated by so many good intentions , one wonders whether its authors and the working people in Europe are living on the same continent and in the same social reality . 
One also wonders whether this ' coordinated modernisation strategy ' is not just another misrepresentation of the coordinated and headlong attack on social protection and security and on the acquired rights of working people . 
We agree with many of the rapporteur ' s remarks but do not at all share his optimism about the Commission ' s and the Council ' s intentions and plans concerning social protection . 
The general lines of the implemented economic policy , the Stability Pact and the strict convergence programmes , which are a constant menace to employment and which promote employability and the flexibilisation of labour relations , and the organisation of labour , along with Commission and the ESF decisions relating to salary and wage restraint , and the insistence upon austere budgetary discipline and upon achieving much - vaunted monetary stability at all costs , leave no doubt about the new strategy ' s objectives and aspirations . 
Its sole purpose is to pave the way and create the right conditions for cutting public expenditure on social security , and for flexibilising social protection itself . 
When social security has repeatedly , and in the words of many influential people , been characterised as a ' cost ' and an ' obstacle ' to greater competitiveness and when ways are being sought to transfer that cost from companies to working people - always , of course , on the pretext that this will create jobs - it would surprise us if the existing model of market economy without accountability , with its dismal monetary - economic approach to everything and total dependence on monopolistic interests , were to take under its protection the fundamental right of the citizens to social protection and care . 
Clearly , what is being attempted is to move away from organised systems of social security under state control , towards systems based on private insurance agencies , which will generate new profits for capital and place even greater burdens on working people , who besides the higher cost , will ' enjoy ' even more degraded social provisions . 
The fostering of illicit competition between public and private social security systems and between the systems of the Member States is not only unjustifiable , but , on the contrary , makes manifest the political expediencies and intolerable pressures imposed upon social security systems to weaken or even do away with them , to the benefit of the private sector and the law of profit . 
It is well known that the level and quality of employment determines the quality of social security systems . 
So how is it possible to speak about healthy and economically sustainable social security systems when we are faced with the millions of unemployed , impoverished and marginalised people , the ' working poor ' of part - time employment , and working conditions that are dissociated from the policies implemented ? 
Social security and protection are among the greatest acquisitions of working people in Europe , and were achieved after many years of battling against the aspirations of big business , and by the constant expression of the solidarity that characterises working people . 
Today , in the Europe of unemployment and underemployment , it is urgently necessary to establish broader social protection and to extend the rights of working people , but this demands a different system of economic and social development , which the EU cannot possibly create , because of its nature and character . 
On the basis of these views , we wish to express our categorical opposition to the ' modernisation ' of the social protection system that the Commission statement is promoting , and to make it clear that we cannot vote in favour of the report by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs which is under discussion . 
That concludes the explanations of vote . 
 ( The sitting was suspended at 1 . 55 p . m . and resumed at 3 p . m . ) 
Next session of UN Human Rights Commission ( continuation ) 
The next item is the debate on the Council declaration on the establishing of the EU priorities for the next session of the UN Commission on Human Rights ( 20 March 2000 ) , including the situation in China . 
Mr President , I regret the absence of the Presidency - in - Office of the Council . 
This is a Council declaration , and I believe that it would perhaps have been useful for them to have been present for the rest of the debate . 
I think it is worth reminding you that the inclusion of this item on the agenda clearly reflects the need , which has been expressed by all the political Groups , for Parliament to hold a debate before the next meeting of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights in Geneva , so that it may express its opinion on such a sensitive issue , one which is so dear to this House . 
Following the statement of the Presidency - in - Office of the Council and the Commission , I believe we can all agree that the current situation with regard to human rights is far removed from what we would all like to see . 
At a European Union level we must recognise that the situation is not completely satisfactory , since , for example , although the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is a common instrument in all Member States , not all subsequent protocols have been ratified or signed by all of them . 
Another clear drawback in this area is the fact that the European Union itself is not a signatory to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms , with all the additional disadvantages that this situation entails . 
I hope that these problems can be tackled and dealt with in the context of the current discussion of the European Union Charter on Fundamental Rights . 
With regard to foreign affairs , I believe that the majority of points which we have included in the resolution accurately illustrate the real situation and hardly invite optimism , Mr President . Issues such as the abolition of the death penalty , the torture which still goes on in many supposedly democratic countries or the situation of minorities in many parts of the world , demand a clear , visible and effective response from the European Union . 
In my opinion , this resolution contains a series of essential points , but I would like to stress one in particular , that is , the need for greater coordination between the European Union and the United Nations . 
Mr President , in a world such as this , which is increasingly dominated by the phenomenon of globalisation , and not only in the economic field , our responses , in order to be effective , must be concerted and coordinated . 
In order to make our actions effective , we must implement a type of coordination in practice which does not exist at present . 
This Parliament therefore advocates the principle that we need to participate in the Commission on Human Rights and other international fora which deal with these issues and , Mr President - in - Office of the Council , this Parliament would like to be able to participate in this type of meeting as soon as possible . 
Soon , in May , the European Commission intends to present a communication on the development of the role of human rights and democratisation in the Union ' s external relations . 
I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Commission to take good note of this need for coordination , which I have just mentioned , and to seek new formulas which will strengthen the role played by the European Union in the field of human rights and , in particular , by this Parliament , especially from the point of view of coherence , recognising the good will of those third countries which accept the inclusion of the democratic clause . 
I believe that this should be applied to all areas , in particular also the budgetary area . 
Lastly , I must recognise the important contributions made by civil society in this area , as well as the often underestimated role of the numerous non - governmental organisations who act on the ground . 
The Union must make every effort to provide all the necessary support for them to carry out their important work . 
Mr President , Commissioners , when this House is called upon to debate human rights it is taking a chance , if you will , that is reinforced by the conditions that prevail when we are called upon to discuss such a crucial issue . 
The absence of the Council , as well as of the majority of MEPs , shows just how great the divide is between our noble , elevated and worthy formal statements and the concrete reality in terms of our day - to - day policies when it comes to human rights . 
I believe that , as a beginning , Parliament is called upon to use the opportunity provided by the Geneva session to narrow that divide . It should adopt an approach that is not just a statement of principle but is an acknowledgement of the true situation and possibly even a pledge of support . 
We must get away from the situation where we are only aware of human rights when they hit the headlines or abuses are being punished . 
The role of Parliament is to meet the issue of human rights head on , particularly at the level of prevention . 
In that sense , we need to be able to export a culture based on legality and respect for the law . 
It seems to me that we have finally reached the end of a long period during which a whole raft of treaties appeared and were duly signed . 
Nowadays , there are many , perhaps too many , treaties on human rights . If those treaties remain mere expressions , they are no more than useless depositories of people ' s thoughts . 
The time has come to move on to a new and crucial phase , namely a phase in which the provisions of the treaties are applied on a daily and binding basis , although we ought not forget that some basic treaties are still to be transposed . I refer to the Rome Conference and the fact that 14 of the 15 Member States of the Union have still not ratified the treaty establishing an International Criminal Court . 
In my view , we should be evaluating and modifying some of the political instruments we use to measure the status of human rights globally . 
We have often employed instruments which , at the formal level , make us feel comfortable , but which , in terms of practical results , are totally ineffectual . By that I mean the use , and often abuse , of embargoes during recent years , and the over - cautious application of the clause allowing suspension of the agreements between the European Union and third countries , where there have been human rights violations . 
In particular , we should be updating the areas where human rights need to be safeguarded . 
Globalisation could easily come to be regarded as a harmful process . 
Many countries are currently questioning the principle of the universality of human rights . The belief is widespread that many human rights , including the right to life , contradicted as it is by the death penalty , depend on certain variables , while globalisation , which often has a negative connotation , is in danger of becoming the catch - all for rights , actions and policies everywhere in the world . 
We should therefore do what is necessary to update the areas in which we can intervene , with renewed strength , to safeguard human rights . In that context I would mention the following : social rights , workers ' rights , quality of work , the need to ensure respect , where necessary , for all the criteria laid down by the International Labour Organisation , the right to tolerance and to respect - a right to which all minorities are entitled , particularly within the European Union . 
I would also mention the right to develop . It is the right of all peoples who , in turn , are the sum of countless individuals each one of whom has the right to develop and to a future that , most importantly , is full of hope and personal growth , within each individual society . 
All those aspects should be part of a rationale , a discourse and a contribution which the European Union should bring to human rights . 
I hope that Parliament ' s participation in the Geneva session turns out to be more than just a token presence and that its representatives do more than just listen to and give evidence . First and foremost they should use the occasion to affirm that we regard the aspects I have just mentioned as central to the identity of the European Union and of the European nation , and that we also uphold the principle of the universality of human rights that transcends time and place . 
That is what we hope for and is the cordial message that we are sending our governments , even if it goes against their interests . 
Mr President , one of the saving features of this Parliament is that here we practise a consistent and active human rights policy : the flag flies high , as Mrs Malmström put it . 
At the same time , however , we shut our eyes to the Union ' s own problems : to the violence , inequality , and fourth world reality , which is part of everyday life in the EU . 
It is absolutely right that we pay serious attention to the violations of human rights that are to be the subject of talks in Geneva . 
The rhetoric that we use , however , often smacks of smugness , verging on the sort of narcissism we associate with human rights attitudes in North America . 
It is nothing less than hypocritical to condemn the flagrant violation of human rights that occurs in non - EU countries if we are not prepared to extend a helping hand to those genuine refugees and asylum - seekers , whose position is now becoming more difficult in the EU . 
Let us , in particular , focus attention on the re - admission clauses , which present a threat to the Geneva Convention and which should be blocked . 
Unless we can maintain high standards of human rights with respect to refugees and asylum - seekers , we are not worthy of those European values which make up the European identity , as Vaclav Havel said here today , and among which he particularly mentioned respect for human rights and solidarity . 
I worked for many years on the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission and it was really moving to see how a nation in such difficult circumstances was reaching out for a more open , European - style , pluralistic democratic society . 
I fear that we are now moving in the opposite direction , towards European exclusiveness and apartheid . 
Mr President , Commissioner , Mr President - in - Office of the Council , in my view , the question which needs to be raised in Geneva this year is certainly not the death penalty . 
We have already had three resolutions on the death penalty approved in Geneva . 
We failed at the General Assembly last year on a fallacious pretext , I refer to article 2 . 7 , which we are otherwise happy to adopt for all other texts . 
The question of the death penalty should therefore be raised at this year ' s General Assembly , certainly not at the Geneva session . 
As Mr Patten said , and I would like to thank him for the positions which he defended , the crucial point is China . 
Unfortunately , the positions taken by the Commission and the Council , or at least the presidency , are more than just a hair ' s breadth apart ; this is serious , especially in the light of the Council ' s macho position on Austria . 
In my view , as far as China is concerned , and knowing that the European Union ' s policy towards China has been a total failure , allegedly constructive dialogue has got us nowhere or , worse , it has given the Chinese new pretexts for increasing repression and for strengthening religious repression and the repression of freedoms ( as Mrs Wallström has said with regard to the Internet ) in all sectors , in Tibet , in inland Mongolia , in eastern Turkistan . 
There is regression in every sector of Chinese civil society . 
It is a fact : China is the major threat , the major threat to us , the threat which we must confront , the threat to peace . 
It is the antithesis of democracy and you know as well as I that the Chinese , the Chinese leadership , is Communist first and Chinese second . 
China likes doublespeak . 
Until we have a firm position , we will achieve nothing with the Chinese authorities . 
I think we need to seize the opportunity . 
We need to associate ourselves with the American initiative . 
We need to table a strong text and that text needs to be adopted . 
We need to work . 
The Fifteen need to start work right now , with all the members of the United Nations ; we need , at long last , to issue a firm condemnation and then use that as a basis to gain a negotiating position . 
Mr President , I would like to try to put a different perspective to this . 
As you know , on Monday an unmanned spacecraft went into orbit around a peanut - shaped asteroid called Eros which is not very far from earth . 
Photographs show us that there is no life on the asteroid , but much further out in our galaxy , the Milky Way , there are about 300 billion stars , many with planets . 
Beyond the Milky Way there are 300 billion other galaxies with countless stars and planets . 
It is probable , therefore , that there is a lot of life out there , and much of it much more advanced than we are . 
Bearing in mind that the first television programmes from earth are now 50 light years out into space way beyond the nearest stars , I invite you to imagine with me what life out there in the stars thinks of us as they look at us . 
What do they see ? 
They see a beautiful planet , teeming with life , but they see its atmosphere being polluted and warming up . 
They see forests being cut down and deserts spreading . 
Of the living creatures , they can see many animals that are treated cruelly , rare ones becoming extinct for ever . 
How do they see the currently dominant species - that is us ? 
Well , they see the planet ' s resources being unevenly spread . 
They see land being fought over , medicine for disease but not in the parts of the world where it is most wanted , books for schools - but not at all in the least - developed areas of our world , 50 % of the world ' s population never making a telephone call in their whole life . 
What do they see about the relationships between human beings ? 
They see us killing each other . 
They see us restricting each other ' s liberties . 
They see a never - ending series of local wars . 
They see some of our children drafted into the army as soldiers , or treated as prostitutes or slaves . 
They see unequal treatment of men and women , of people of different ages , of minorities , of people of different coloured skins , of races , of beliefs , of immigrants , even neighbours . 
We all know the picture . 
The UN Convention on Human Rights 50 years ago was an attempt to correct this . 
We should salute it - and I think we do . 
Only in Europe are human rights enforceable in law . 
Here in the European Parliament some of the Members do not want the Charter of Rights , which is being discussed at the moment , to become enforceable in law . 
I say : shame on them ! 
Human rights should be enforceable in law in every country of the world . That is the goal which we have to work towards . 
Much , as Commissioner Patten said , remains to be done . 
Finally , if you asked me : What if there is no life out there among the stars , what if we are alone ?  - which is an equally awe - inspiring thought - I would say : Do not you think we have a responsibility too to make our children behave properly , before letting them go out to populate other planets ? 
Mr President , human rights are universal , indivisible , interrelated and interwoven . 
This well - known phrase , which is taken from the conclusions of the UN World Conference on human rights of 1993 , is known off by heart by many . 
That is positive . 
But what about the human rights policy within the EU itself ? 
Does it reflect this vision of coherence ? 
In fact , does the European Union have a human rights policy ? 
This question does not challenge the efforts made by the Member States who wish to bring their viewpoints on foreign policy into line and to display a united front against violations of human rights elsewhere , for example in China . 
No , Mr President , I am talking about the lack of human rights policy within the European Union itself . 
A new government has come into power in Austria , comprising a political party which has sent out a message of racism and intolerance vis - à - vis minorities . 
Human rights , which the EU embraces , are thus under threat , but the reactions to these events have brought to light the fact that there is no coherent framework in which an appropriate reaction can be formulated . 
The widely quoted Article 7 of the Treaty , which provides for the repeal of membership rights from a Member State where serious and continuous violations against human rights have been established , is , of course , only a kill or cure remedy , an ultimum remedium , which , in the case of Austria , can only be quoted in the absence of anything more effective , and by way of warning . 
There is , therefore a need for a fully - fledged human rights policy for and by the European Union , a policy which promotes and enforces human rights within the EU itself . 
Such policy should comprise various components . 
Firstly : a regulatory framework is needed , which spells out very clearly the rights which the EU intends to secure for its citizens . 
A start is now being made on the drafting of such a charter , but we can no longer put off the question of legal status and the strategic significance of this document or pass it on to learned professional jurists . 
This is a political question which , in the short term , requires an answer from the IGC and this Parliament . 
Secondly : a range of instruments has to be developed which allow for a flexible response and which do not force us into a situation where we need to choose between a kill or cure remedy or a complete stab in the dark . 
The following spring to mind in this respect : the systematic collation of documentation and information , professional forms of observation , the development of information campaigns , the use of cash to support democratic forces in the country concerned , a more creative deployment of the resources which are available through multilateral diplomacy , such as organised dialogue and fact finding missions and such like . 
Thirdly : it will need to be made clear for each of the EU institutions where the responsibility for human rights policy lies within the European Union and what the tasks and competences are that this entails . 
The Commission and the Council will each have to decide for themselves what these might be . 
This Parliament is excluded from this , for our Rules of Procedure stipulate that the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs carries this responsibility . 
But I am somewhat surprised that the resolution which should bring this debate on human rights to a conclusion has been prepared in the foreign sector of this Parliament and that the aforementioned Committee , of which I form part , has not been involved in this . 
Mr President , this Parliament is fragmented and divided . 
For the sake of our credibility , we will have to speak with one voice when it comes to human rights and not act as if human rights within the EU are different from human rights elsewhere in the world . 
I think that this will benefit our credibility in the UN Human Rights Committee . 
Mr President , what will it take to make the debate on human rights something other than what it is today : an ideological instrument which helps to enslave peoples rather than free individuals ? 
We must start by going beyond man , who is not the master of the universe , to the source of all genuine rights and civilised values , without which the eternal claim to rights always ends in tyranny and bloodshed . 
We need , in the ancient and mediaeval tradition of Europe , to go back to the natural order of the universe , i . e . to the Creation , and beyond that still further , to the Creator ' s intention . 
Then we shall see that the rights of the child are only respected within a proper family , the rights of workers are only respected in the intermediary bodies which we have recently destroyed and that citizens ' rights are only respected within sovereign states . 
Secondly , the doctrine of human rights must no longer be exploited , as it is today , as an instrument of ideological warfare in the hands of a cast which claims the right to decree unilaterally who is to be the arbiter of human rights and who is to be deprived of those rights , thereby denying the legitimacy and , if need be , the freedom of those whom the party line has deemed politically incorrect . 
 ' No freedom for the enemies of freedom ' was what the advocates of the revolutionary Terror were saying two centuries ago , the advocates of the revolution which proved , alas , to be the mother of all modern totalitarian regimes . 
No human rights for the enemies of human rights is what the acolytes of the new world order are saying today , the new world order which reigns almost unchallenged in financial circles , in international institutions , in the media and cultural networks , and in educational institutions , to mention but a few . 
What is left , for example , of the right of Austrians to choose their own destiny , if that choice is dictated on their behalf by those who decide what should or should not be done and if their duly and legally elected leaders are received in an insulting manner , as they were recently by you in Portugal , Mr President of the Council . 
I do not know if he is still present and can hear me . 
What is left of the human rights of those who sympathise with the Vlaamsblok , one of the most important parties in the Flemish region , if tomorrow the Belgian Parliament adopts the implausible , indecent and ignominious bill tabled by its main political rivals , the Volksunie , which seeks quite simply to abolish the party ? 
What is left of the right to engage in a critical study of history when authors and publishers are persecuted , as the young historian Jean Plantin was just yesterday before the Court of Appeal , in my home town of Lyon - he was the subject of an absurd , arrogant and offensive closing speech by the public prosecutor Jean - Olivier Viout , the smug expression of straitjacketed thinking and intellectual conformism ? 
It is a strange concept of human rights when peaceful patriotism is fraudulently equated with aggressive nationalism , when legitimate protests against immigration policies are equated with I do not know what form of xenophobia and the vital defence of identities is equated with racism . 
What of the human rights of the millions of French people who voted for the National Front and who are deprived of any political representation and vilified daily , as they were on Monday on the television channels of the state to which they are required to pay taxes , when the simple expression of justifiably exasperated views by one of our colleagues , Mr Le Pen , is used as a pretext for iniquitous condemnation , in violation of the law and in violation of all notions of justice , fairness and morals , and when attempts are made , in violation of the clearest legislation , to deprive this representative of millions of our fellow citizens of the mandate which he has been given by their vote , not received as a favour from the government . 
In a word , I shall believe your talk about human rights in Europe , fellow Members , when you acknowledge that your political opponents have the same rights as you allow yourselves . 
I shall believe your talk about human rights in China when you name the real cause of the problem , i . e . Communism . 
Listen to the resounding voice of Solzhenitsyn in his letter to the Americans , in which he says that the main cause of the weakness of Western society is excessive pandering to legal individualism , an individualism which , far from allowing people to flourish , paves the way for future dictatorship , in fact the worst kind of dictatorship , because those whom it enslaves are not even aware of their terrible servitude . 
Mr President , the principle of universal human rights is undoubtedly one of the most important political legacies of the 20th century . 
The holocaust , fifty years ago , led to the need to lay down a number of fundamental rights and freedoms . 
Since the end of the cold war , compliance with human rights has also become a condition for international cooperation . 
Leaders violating these principles now face international criticism , sanctions and are even brought to trial , such as ex - dictators like Mr Pinochet have experienced . 
These developments are encouraging but do not detract from the fact that the situation of human rights in the world remains very disquieting . 
Especially in situations of war , civilians are given less consideration all the time . 
It seems contradictory . 
Never before in history has humanitarian right been so well developed . 
Never before have so many international treaties been ratified by so many countries . 
Yet the most basic rules of conduct are being flouted on a massive scale and there are more civilian victims than there were a century ago . 
Women are systematically raped . 
Children are conscripted by force and deployed in battle . 
Excesses are no longer the exception , they have unfortunately become the rule . 
This applies today to no fewer than thirty conflicts worldwide . 
Too late , too selective and too fragmented : this is how one could describe the human rights policy of the international community . 
First of all , the policy comes too late . Both in Rwanda and Kosovo , the UN , despite the many warnings , appeared to be overtaken by events and stood by as a helpless observer of the massacres , as President Havel pointed out this afternoon . 
Fifty years later , we are still unable to prevent genocide . 
We should therefore direct more attention to monitoring and conflict prevention as a matter of urgency . 
Control of the arms trade and improved media control are essential in this . 
The human rights policy is also too selective . 
The months of NATO bombardments of Kosovo and the mediation attempts in the Middle East are in stark contrast to international apathy with regard to the conflicts in Africa . 
I cannot shake off the impression that , when it comes to human rights , despite all the rhetoric , Africa does not feature on top of the agenda of the Portuguese Presidency . 
This is something which I very much regret . 
The impression that Africans get , namely that they are inferior world citizens , is not unfounded . 
I would like to warn against a blurring of standards in the assessment of human rights situations in Africa , where violations are viewed as a necessary evil . 
But above all , the human rights policy is too fragmented . 
We are unable to draft a common strategy within the international communities or Europe . 
Take Sudan . 
The international community is sending conflicting messages to this country . 
Britain has re - opened its embassy in Khartoum . 
Canada has invited the Sudanese for peace talks . 
Europe puts the rebels in the South under pressure to negotiate and at the same time , Americans isolate the regime and support the rebels at military level . 
There is a need for more coordination , more exchange of information and a more coherent approach whereby any raised bids are avoided . 
Only then can we follow in the footsteps of the founders of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights . 
Mr President , I would like to start with the fact that if words could solve the problems we could all pack up and go home . 
But unfortunately , as we speak today in the safety of this Chamber , human rights abuses are occurring throughout the free world . 
Sometimes the more we speak , the less we hear - motions : words ; conventions : words ; treaties : words - if we are not careful , words themselves become a substitute for real action . 
Words framed in inclusive and liberating documents become treaties and conventions which are often paraded as a testimony to a country ' s respect for and adherence to human rights . 
Yet words spoken , written or signed are not in themselves enough . 
Look at the signatories to the conventions on human rights and minorities and then compare the treatment received by such minorities , groups and individuals - the list is shameful and shaming . 
Can anyone argue with any persuasiveness that women are treated equally and fairly , that children have human rights or that people are not discriminated against because of their religion , belief , gender , disability , age , sexual orientation , opinion , political affiliation etc ? 
The defamation of minorities in newspapers and other media fuels discrimination . 
Even within the EU citizens still suffer human rights violations and a breach of our conventions . 
Every day in the press misinformation and misrepresentation are used to deny some minorities equality before the law and to denigrate ethnic minorities . 
Quite frankly a hierarchy of oppression has been created . 
And so long as people do not have equality before the law , this inequality will lead to discrimination and human rights will be eroded . 
In our enlargement process in the EU we have rightly placed the emphasis on human rights and the protection of minorities . 
We must not waiver in that commitment . 
But we must also hold up the mirror to ourselves and recognise our own inadequacies . 
Yes , conventions have been signed , but action is needed . 
I would recommend to you ongoing audits of human rights practices , eternal vigilance , not just outside our borders but within . 
That is why I would welcome an annual Member State report from each individual state which would have to record any charges against it and the action taken . 
Because what happens in each Member State happens to every single one of us . 
What happens in another part of the world affects us . 
Pinochet in Chile is as relevant as Haider in Austria . 
Human rights and civil liberties are inextricably linked . 
Human rights do not exist in isolation , they are connected to our development policies , our economic policies , our home affairs policies , indeed they are at the very heart of our democratic functions . 
I would repeat what Mr Patten said : we must engage , we must inform , educate and thereby effect real and lasting change . 
Mr President ,  " Europe stands for ideals , values and principles . 
We must emphasise Europe ' s spiritual history . Together , we must re - establish the values which unite Europe . 
Spiritual values have been disseminated from Europe throughout the globe . 
We must live with our consciences . " 
These were the words spoken three hours ago in this Chamber by the President of the Czech Republic , Vaclav Havel . 
In an extraordinarily edifying speech , characterised by wisdom , historical knowledge , an understanding of the human heart and insight into Europe ' s spiritual and Christian heritage , he pointed to sources of inspiration for our work on human justice and human dignity . 
We should be grateful that there are Heads of State like Vaclav Havel in our Europe . 
I wish to discuss two matters . 
First of all , civil society . 
Vaclav Havel stated that , in Eastern Europe , the Communist regimes methodically destroyed civil society : national movements , churches and the independent trade unions . 
The same is happening in China in connection with the Falun Gong movement and with the Catholic and Protestant churches . It is happening with Buddhism in Tibet . 
We must never forget to defend civil society . 
I also want to mention the death penalty . 
Like my own country , Sweden , the EU bases its view of human beings upon the equal , unique and inviolable value of every human . 
On the basis of this principle , human beings should always have the chance to redeem themselves . 
Try telling that to the governments of the United States , Russia and China . 
Mr President , President - in - Office , Commissioner , I believe the approach of EU Member States at Geneva should be to prioritise the situations in Kosovo , Mexico , Saudi Arabia , Sierra Leone and China . 
In relation to China , we should not be dissuaded from raising the issue simply because discussions on it may be blocked . 
However , it is imperative that the EU speaks and acts as one , and threats of trade sanctions should strengthen rather than weaken our resolve . 
However , if full expression is to be given to the decisions which may eventually be taken at Geneva , then the office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights must be provided with the necessary resources . 
The financial resources of the United Nations are spread very thinly and because of this many crucial programmes are dependent on voluntary contributions to keep them afloat . 
Resources are also needed for promoting practical cooperation and human rights , strategic planning , the establishment of priorities and strengthening communications between the donor community and member states of the United Nations . 
To this end the High Commissioner recently launched an annual appeal for USD 53 million to enable her office to carry out these tasks . 
The European Union and its Member States should take the lead in providing a significant portion of these funds . 
In so doing , we would not only embarrass the United States into shouldering its responsibilities in relation to UN funding , but we would also demonstrate that our commitment to defending human rights is more than simply empty rhetoric . 
Mr President , this debate is mainly concerned with the preparations for the forthcoming annual UN Human Rights Convention and the Commission ' s and Council ' s efforts in this respect . 
I would first of all like to say that I am very pleased with the contributions made by Mr Patten and the Minister , and I welcome the fact that both China and Cuba are on the agenda . 
Cuba is the last stronghold of dictatorship in South America and we must be mindful of this , with all due sympathy to Cuba . 
It is a dictatorship and hence not a democracy . 
I would , during my two minutes , like to draw attention to two countries which are close to my heart . 
The first country is Indonesia . 
We are naturally delighted that Indonesia is under new rule and that Mr Wahid and Mrs Sukarnoputri are the new President and Vice - President . 
We are also pleased that the situation in Timor is slowly moving in the right direction . 
But I can report that in the Moluccas , an area just north of Timor , the violence is still not under control . 
This has claimed thousands of lives over the past two years . 
Tens of thousands of people are on the run . 
The situation is badly managed . 
I know that tomorrow , or the day after tomorrow , an important programme will be shown on Dutch television , in which an appeal will be made for observers . 
This is with the sole purpose of monitoring what exactly is going on , so that at least a record can be made , not least for the future , for human rights committees , of what has been happening . 
My urgent request , which has been echoed many times in resolutions , is the following : could you not confer so that observers can be sent to the Moluccas ? 
Surely thousands of people killed , thousands wounded and tens of thousands on the run is enough . 
My second country - I will be brief as Mr Patten knows this country very well - is Burma . 
Surely we cannot just keep silent about Burma . 
I have the feeling that that country is gradually being relegated to oblivion . 
For ten years now , the elected President of that country has been under house arrest . 
And for ten years now , its parliament has been out of action . 
Numerous MPs have been killed or have fled the country and only a few are left in Burma . 
There are hundreds of thousands of refugees in Thailand and India from Burma and yet it seems that that country is no longer given any attention . 
In my opinion , Burma should be put back on the agenda , too , certainly in the wake of Indonesia ' s U - turn . 
Surely we cannot tolerate the fact that Mrs Aung San Sui Kyi feels completely left in the lurch , even by Europe . 
My request is , in fact , to put this country back on the top of the agenda . 
Mr President , Mr President - in - Office , Commissioner , economic clout cannot be the only factor that determines the European Union ' s status in the world . 
One of the EU ' s distinguishing features is our systematic approach to human rights , as exercised both within the Union and by our partners . 
The European Parliament has been at the forefront of the battle to promote and defend human rights , and it has succeeded in overcoming the limits imposed by self - interest and " national interests "  , which are sometimes reflected in the positions adopted by the Member States and even by other European Union institutions . 
We can therefore safely say , for example , that the European Parliament has never allowed the situation in East Timor to be forgotten , which could have been the greatest obstacle to finding an equitable solution for its people , who always opposed occupation by Indonesia . 
By the same token we have recently opposed arms sales to Indonesia , a stance that the Council unfortunately did not take into account . 
But it is not just a question of preventing or putting a stop to sickening instances of aggression perpetrated by individuals or institutions against those in a weaker position . 
It is vital that when violations are committed , the perpetrators should not be able to act with impunity , whoever or wherever they may be - in Indonesia or Angola , in Cuba , China or Burma , whether the perpetrators are civilians or soldiers , humble foot - soldier or general or even a minister . 
Justice needs to be done in Indonesia . 
Justice needs to be done in East Timor . 
President Wahid needs our support to cope with the difficult situation he is faced with . 
The specific reference in this resolution to East Timor , on the initiative of the PPE Group , is a timely one . 
Someone must be held to account for the events that took place there , some of which I saw with my own eyes as a representative of this House ; they cannot go unpunished . 
It is impossible to talk about East Timor without mentioning the tens of thousands of Timorese refugees living on Indonesian soil in inhumane conditions , under the control of Indonesian soldiers and militias , and being used as bargaining chips . 
This is an intolerable situation which must cease as a matter of urgency . 
 . 
 ( PT ) Mr President , I would like to make a few very brief comments on behalf of the Council presidency , and first to remind you that the work done by the presidency is above all about coordination and about seeking common positions on initiatives that the fifteen Member States are to approve in the Council . 
Our experience of previous sessions of the Human Rights Commission suggests - precisely by virtue of this coordinating role played by successive presidencies - that the European Union is very much able to uphold its status as a body with its own policy within the Commission , and it is important to maintain this . 
I would also like to say that the European Parliament ' s participation in the preparatory work is important in establishing coherent European Union positions on various different issues , and that the presidency therefore naturally welcomes all the various suggestions and in particular all the contributions made through the resolutions which have been presented . 
I would also like to stress , as many Members have highlighted , that human rights policy is at the heart of Europe ' s identity and that respect for human rights should be seen as a fundamental principle for international cooperation by the European Union . 
Hence the need for the most coherent European human rights policy possible , which of course means that we need to adopt clear and unambiguous positions where we consider a state of affairs to be unacceptable , and I have in mind , in particular , the references that many Members have made to China . 
But we have also duly noted the concerns expressed by many other Members about other countries , notably Indonesia , East Timor , the Moluccas and Burma . 
I could not conclude without mentioning Mr Van Hecke ' s speech in particular , in which he referred to the human rights situation in Africa and to the role and priorities of the Portuguese Presidency , and questioned the sincerity of the priority we are giving to relations with the European Union . 
I would simply like to say that the Portuguese Presidency has , in these two short months , organised the first Development Council , admittedly an informal one , whose agenda was rightly dominated by EU - Africa relations . 
Indeed it was this subject which led the development ministers of the fifteen Member States to meet in Lisbon for discussions specifically on the new era these relations have entered . 
Furthermore , I cannot stress enough the significance of our having concluded important negotiations on the new convention to succeed the Lomé Convention , and the fact that , following extremely complex and difficult negotiations , we have succeeded in organising - or making preparations for the organisation of - the first EU - Africa Summit . 
For all these reasons I thought it essential to reply directly to Mr Van Hecke ' s question on this issue . 
 . Mr President , this has been a very useful debate . 
One or two speeches have referred to specific issues which we are well advised to think about very carefully . 
For example , Mrs Maij - Weggen referred to both Indonesia and Burma and made some important points about both those countries and the human rights situation there . 
What I would like to focus on very briefly are one or two themes which ran through our debate . 
One of the very first speakers , Mr Wuori , spoke of the remarks made earlier today by Mr Havel . 
It was a remarkable speech and I hope that Mr Gollnisch , who is no longer able to be with us , was able to hear that speech as well . 
I also hope that , if there is any life in outer space , as has been speculated by Mr Newton Dunn , it was tuned in to Mr Havel ' s speech as well . 
Mr Havel reminded us that the Union is not just about markets , about GDP growth , it is a Union of values that is reflected in the Treaties and is reflected in our obligations in the whole area of external assistance , reflected quite specifically in what we are charged to do . 
How do we implement what the Treaties say in all those words about development assistance programmes ? 
One or two honourable Members , Mr Ferber and Mr Cushnahan , spoke about the gap between rhetoric and reality . 
Mr Cashman said , which is right in a sense , that words are no substitute for real action . 
Of course , words can make a bit of a difference , a point that was made by Mrs Malmström . 
She said that she had received a letter from the Chinese Ambassador , a very amiable and highly intelligent representative and servant of his country , to tell her that she was wrong and the European Parliament was wrong in its attitude on human rights in China . 
I think after her speech she will receive a cascade of letters from the Chinese authorities . 
She will be able to fill a filing cabinet with letters about what is claimed to be the real situation in China . 
I think she was reflecting the views of many non - governmental organisations , many people who admire Chinese civilisation but are concerned about what is happening in China today . 
