Mr President , I must firstly thank the rapporteur , Mr Schmidt , my colleague , Mr Goebbels , and Mrs Villiers and Mrs Lulling from my Group . Despite their differing opinions on some points , they have consistently worked in an extremely constructive manner . 
As indicated by the rapporteur , we are discussing probably one of the most important issues that we will ever have to discuss in this Parliament . 
Collective investment undertakings have for some time been the primary savings vehicle through which millions of ordinary citizens , without any specialist knowledge , have invested their life savings . 
This is the main reason why we must proceed with liberalisation , albeit in a prudent manner . 
I say this because the failure of a bank is a problem for which any government can find a solution . 
However , the failure and suspension of payments of this type of undertaking would create a political , social and personal problem with incalculable consequences . 
There is also a second reason why prudence is needed in the regulation of these undertakings . 
I believe in a social market economy based on a successful market operating subject to certain rules intended to guarantee the general interest . Specifically , at the moment , this means the protection of investors . 
This basic principle of liberalisation , increased competition and greater investment opportunities , together with prudence to ensure the protection which investors deserve , has determined and inspired my Group ' s position on most of the controversial points which have arisen . 
Firstly , there is the problem of investment in non - harmonised undertakings falling outside this directive . 
It is clear that by extending the proposal under discussion , the options and the range of investments in undertakings for collective investments , those undertakings which remain outside the rules will be obliged to invest in high - risk funds . 
It would be wrong to allow the regulated and protected undertakings to invest in other undertakings involved in such risky investments . 
Secondly , the problem of derivatives is one which has created the most divisions , both within my Group and between the groups . 
We have achieved a compromise solution . 
Everyone accepts that investments in derivatives must be legally limited in order to prevent a harmonised fund losing all its assets due to an investment in high - risk products . 
It is clear that this risk is greater when the investment is in derivatives not dealt in on a regulated market , namely the famous OTC derivatives . 
We have achieved an acceptable compromise solution on this , or so we believe , which I welcome . 
As this issue will be returning to this House at some stage , I must highlight the working method used between the Commission and this Parliament . 
The texts before us today are old and were already old when they reached this House . This was because they were substantially amended during the Finnish Presidency . 
We are therefore faced with two options . We can either return the proposals to the Commission for the latter to present a harmonised text or we can continue the current process . 
This second option has won the day and I am pleased about this . However , in the future I hope that the coordination between these two institutions and the Council can be improved so that our work is more understandable and more productive . 
Mr President , the Socialist Group supports the Commission ' s efforts to implement the action plan for financial services . 
Obviously , in the wake of the introduction of the euro , we need to create an integrated European financial market which is similar to the American and Japanese markets . 
The debates on UCITS gave rise to speeches on behalf of all sorts of lobbies and heated debate in the relevant committee . 
I should like to congratulate the rapporteur , Mr Olle Schmidt , and also Mr García - Margallo y Marfil , for their constructive approach . 
The Socialists recognise the importance of the investment fund industry to the development of our economies and to the allocation of resources . 
But the world of international finance is a dangerous one . 
The capital markets are still at the mercy of their excesses . 
There is at present a surfeit of cash looking for a home . 
In 1999 , the increase in the means of payment in the world resulted in over - stimulated stock exchanges and an explosion in the volume of transactions , pushing up the prices of long - term financial and real assets . 
And as international financial activity speeds up , the risks increase . 
You do not need a Nobel prize in economics to realise that the current working hypothesis of the financial markets , which anticipate annual growth in profits of the order of 15 to 25 % is quite simply unrealistic in the medium term . 
I adamantly believe that the main risk to the world economy in the foreseeable future is not inflation , but deflation generated as the speculative bubbles , created by what Alan Greenspan calls irrationally exuberant markets , burst . 
The legislature has a duty to contain the risk inherent in the continuing deregulation of the European financial markets . 
By definition , investment funds use other people ' s money . 
The legislator should protect the general interest and introduce safeguard clauses . 
There is no freedom without rules . 
We have done away with so - called master - feeder structures . 
These feeder funds exist in the United States , which is an area with a single supervisory authority and a single legal system . 
The European market is still fragmented and such structures would doubtless cause problems . 
The Socialists , like the Commission , question the advisability of allowing investment funds to invest in so - called over - the - counter derivatives , i . e . products negotiated between professionals by private contract . 
As these transactions are generally not subject to prudential control , the risks are all the more obvious . 
The Socialist Group has tabled amendments proposing both quantitative and qualitative safeguard clauses in order to contain the risks to investors . 
By adopting these amendments , Parliament will allow recourse to OTC derivatives but will also limit the risk to private investors . 
Mr President , there is much talk at present of the principle of good governance . 
This principle should not only guide the public sector , it should also guide the private sector , especially financial undertakings . 
Mr President , our objective in setting a framework for unit trusts and other UCTIS is to secure the highest possible safe return for our savers , which is why I want to address the issue of derivatives in my remarks today . 
I firmly believe that the prudent use of derivatives can help fund secure , safer , higher returns . 
Despite their image of danger , derivatives are usually used by asset managers as insurance . 
A contract that , for example , pays a substantial sum if , say , the NASDAQ or the CAC 40 share index falls , causes an extra payment by the investor if the NASDAQ or the CAC 40 share index rises . 
Is this speculative ? 
Not at all . 
Imagine you have spent some months building up a portfolio of shares in companies in which you are confident : they have good management , good prospects and they are good investments . 
Then you become worried that the whole stock market is going to collapse , as it did in 1987 . 
You have the option of selling off everything and getting into cash , but that would be to waste your research into the winners . 
It would also incur all the transaction costs of selling your shares and then buying them again after the fall . 
The solution is to take out a derivative which pays off if the NASDAQ or CAC 40 falls . 
But even with a tailor - made derivative or OTC derivative which would be cheaper , perhaps insuring you against a relative fall in your portfolio against the index , you would still have the portfolio and the shares , but you would have protected yourself against the risks of a collapse . 
In exchange , you might also have given up some of the upside of the markets . 
In this case , which is perhaps the most common use of derivatives by asset managers , you reduce your potential reward but you also reduce your potential risk . 
That is a desirable development in a soundly managed fund . 
History demonstrates that investors benefit from a liberal and light - handed approach to regulation . 
Heavy - handedness - a prescription of how private sector managers should invest and where they should invest - will merely reduce returns to savers . 
Pension funds which suffered from rules on where they could and could not invest , as required by of our government bonds , made returns of 5 . 2 % a year , barely half the 9 . 5 % annual returns made by free funds between 1984 and 1996 . 
These are of course the returns after deducting all losses . 
Do not confuse a real concern for the interests of investors with a populist fear of the new and the innovative and liberal approach that pays off . 
This is what we should be concerned about here today . 
Mr President , the report presented to us today seeks to complete the free movement of financial investments in Europe , including the most sophisticated forms of investment . 
We do not , in principle , oppose this industry . 
However , unlike Mr Christopher Huhne , we feel that a continent which has proved incapable of controlling its oil industry properly should not overly deregulate an industry which may , in time , provoke the same type of crisis . 
We shall therefore vote cautiously on all amendments limiting recourse to excessively derivative instruments and we shall vote in favour of all amendments which limit the excessive concentration of assets within a single financial group . 
But we make no bones about the fact that we shall vote against the text as a whole . 
We shall also vote in the future against any proposals to deregulate the financial markets and we call on all the other political groups to do likewise until such time as taxation on investment income is finally harmonised . 
For years certain countries , including Great Britain , have been blocking harmonisation and turning their financial centres into tax havens . 
They even reject the strict minimum , i . e . the Monti package proposed by the Commission in Brussels . 
This attitude is turning Europe into a machine which exempts investment income from tax and shifts the whole tax burden to commercial income , with all the social and even moral consequences which that implies . 
We must put an end to this . 
By blocking the demands of the financial industry , the European Parliament has the means to ensure that countries which have been turned into tax havens end up with their back against the wall . 
Mr President , the 1985 directive introduced a sort of European visa for certain types of UCITS which could be marketed throughout the Union . 
Since then , the capital market and transferable securities have not just continued to evolve ; thanks to unbridled financial globalisation , they have exploded exponentially and without restraint . 
This brings us to the two proposals for directives . 
The second proposal , on which the report is excellent , does not require any particular comment . It aims to strengthen consumer protection and security . 
It is a step in the right direction , even if one wonders why in heaven , with what right and with what respect for our citizens , we are further bolstering the monopoly of the English language in all documents distributed throughout Europe . 
That is the thrust of an amendment which we have tabled ; it favours all the languages of the Community and our agreement to the second directive will depend on it . 
The same cannot be said of the first proposal . 
We might have been able to agree to the original text insofar as it was informed by a legitimate concern to update current legislation . 
However , we are unable to agree to the text of the report , although I welcome the work carried out by Mr Schmidt , for several reasons . 
First , it leans too far towards products based on indexes which have no bearing on the real economy ; derivatives which will help to swell the financial bubble which Mr Lipietz referred to just now . 
Secondly , like him , I think that we should not promote excessive concentration in funds which , in the final analysis , will prove to be a Trojan horse for American pension funds . There is , of course , no reciprocity in favour of European UCITS . 
We shall also vote against the abolition of the facility for the Member States to increase to 35 %  . . . 
 ( The President cut the speaker off ) 
Mr President , this is a vital issue for Europe . 
A Europe that faces an impending pensions time bomb must take every step to encourage saving and maximise the return that the people of Europe can obtain on their savings . 
I welcome many of the developments which Mr Schmidt ' s report brings us . 
UCITS are a success story within the European Union . 
They are a safe product , traded cross - border . 
But it is time for the legislation to be updated . 
Mr Schmidt has done an excellent job here . 
It is no secret that I would have much preferred Mr Schmidt ' s report not to have been altered so much as it passed through Parliament . 
But I appeal to this House to take a balanced and common - sense approach on this issue . 
The radical step taken by this report is to allow UCITS to use over - the - counter derivatives . 
I appeal to everyone here to evaluate the products which will be used by UCITS . 
We are not talking about the use of derivatives for speculation . 
We are talking about the use of derivatives to reduce risk and to increase the returns on the savings of ordinary Europeans . 
Mr Schmidt is to be applauded for having obtained the support of Parliament for over - the - counter derivatives . 
We must not be afraid to go forward , to react to changes in the market . 
Yes , we need to continue to ensure that UCITS provide a balanced and protected product for consumers . 
The report gives very adequate protection for consumers . 
But a number of the amendments go too far in restricting the use of over - the - counter derivatives . 
I feel these derivatives will be an addition to the portfolio of unit trusts , which can only help individual people around Europe obtain a high return on their savings . 
I salute Mr Schmidt . 
Thank you very much Mr Kuckelkorn . 
Ladies and gentlemen , I have an update for you on the curtain and window situation . 
If we open this curtain , then we will find that there is a partition wall behind it which cannot just be removed straight away . 
We will therefore have to defer this experiment until the next plenary sitting . 
However , I will make sure that we have a go then and see how the land lies . 
Mr President , the UCITS directive has been an enormous success since it entered into force on 1 October 1989 , mainly thanks to the excellent protection which it offers investors . 
The directive and the reputation which UCITS enjoy with investors have allowed the investment fund industry to multiply its assets in the European Union fivefold . 
There has been a strong increase in cross - border marketing of investments within the European Union and the directive itself is used as a model for legislation throughout the world . 
However , the directive is ten years old and , now that the markets have developed and more and more sophisticated financial products are available , it is somewhat outdated . 
The Commission proposals being debated here will give it the face - lift it needs . 
I share some of the concerns expressed here , especially by Mr García - Margallo y Marfil , but this face - lift would be even more successful if the funds which simply reproduce a stock exchange index , and which are therefore managed either passively or not at all , and the funds which use an index as a benchmark for an actively - managed fund were treated in the same way , if only to allow medium - sized undertakings listed on the stock exchange but not included in the stock exchange index better access to the capital market . 
In addition , investors often have better protection with an actively - managed fund . 
My Amendment No 47 is therefore a warning for amateurs . 
As far as the proposal for a new provision limiting investments in the same group to 15 % is concerned , I would like to stress that , apart from the fact that this limit is too low , the text does not define the concept of a group . 
This concept does not exist under European law because it is impossible to implement and equally impossible to control in practice . 
I shall therefore vote against this proposed amendment . To conclude , Mr President , allow me to remind the House that the directive needs a makeover which will make UCITS even more attractive , but it does not need to be strapped into a European corset which will squeeze the life out of it . 
 -  ( DE ) Mr President , the introduction of the euro and the further liberalisation of capital markets has already produced a larger and deeper European financial area , which is helping to open up markets and create price transparency , but also to increase competition . 
At the same time , it is important to appreciate the economic importance of financial business dealings , particularly those we are concerned with today . 
At the end of 1999 there were almost 15 000 investment funds registered as UCITS with a total value of in excess of EUR 2 billion , thereby accounting for roughly 75 % of all funds assets . 
Hence the Commission rightly cited the economic importance thereof in its proposals for draft directives , and I must say that I actually have every confidence in the Commission ' s proposal . 
We are all aware how difficult it is to improve a legal framework for investment funds , and how difficult it is to construct the European passport for management companies around particular standards which are to apply even - handedly across the board . 
This therefore represents a step forward in respect of the legal and supervisory stipulations for financial markets and financial products . 
It is also my primary concern to optimise consumer protection in this way and I think it is very important for this to be reflected in the Commission ' s proposal and that of the European Parliament , as well as in the compromise motions . 
However , I do not believe that we can assess the risk associated with the OTC derivatives , and I also think that as a European Parliament it is our duty to inform and impress again and again on consumers - who expect investment funds to be comparable with a traditional savings agreement when it comes to long - term security , and indeed that is why they were known as investment savings - that these products do not bear comparison and that is why we need a minimum level of protection . 
Why do we not take our cue from the minimum level of protection afforded by the trade in transferable securities directive , Article 11 for example , which relates to good practice ? 
I therefore believe that this is another step forward we can take and I think it would also be a positive move if consumers and investors could be made aware of a fund ' s name so as to be able to learn something about its risk profile . 
Mr President , Commissioner , the proposal for a directive now under discussion brings with it several welcome reforms to the current legal provisions . 
The preparatory work has largely consisted of a viable balance between increasing the efficacy and growth of the European investment markets and preserving a sufficient level of protection for consumers who buy fund units . 
The greater the trust consumers have in investment market operations , the more consumers will be prepared to invest on the open market . 
And the more consumers invest , the brighter the prospects will be in the European business money markets . 
It is quite clear that when businesses can more easily have access to their own capital - based finances their financial structure will be more firmly based , and , thus , opportunities for growth and investment will also improve . 
Whether or not the money will come onto the equity market in the form of direct investment or via UCITS is not relevant here . 
Although in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs we were very much in agreement with the aims of the legislative amendment , the debate we had was not the easiest one . 
For me personally at least , difficulties were caused by the directive ' s technical division into two different proposals , which certainly did not make it easier to familiarise oneself with this very difficult technical subject . 
However , I would like to express my position with regard to a few detailed proposals . 
Firstly , I am very satisfied that the proposal for a directive as a whole increases the scope of investment funds for targeting capital at different instruments . 
As regards derivatives , I consider the position adopted by the committee justified - unlike Mrs Randzio - Plath , for example . 
The directive should not treat over - the - counter derivatives differently from standard derivatives because they are used in many Member States and were also used before . 
With regard to Article 5g of the other proposal for a directive , the so - called Article on Delegation , I think the Commission ' s original proposal on rules concerning authorisation was better than the one now approved in the committee , so I would support some of Mrs Villiers ' amendments to this point . 
Mr President , I see two problems with this morning ' s debate . 
Firstly , when I came to this Parliament many years ago I was told that if you had a difficult job you gave it to a Liberal . 
Now I have been told that if you have a difficult debate you know you are in trouble if half the Luxembourg Members are in the Chamber at one time - and they are . 
Firstly , I welcome proposal No 1 . It simplifies things and brings things up to date . 
I think many of the British Members will be voting against a large number of the amendments in the report . 
We support the Schmidt report on proposal No 1 , but we regret the fact that the directive sets a lot of quantity limits that restrict the ability to spread risks . 
We believe that a more liberal market is the best way forward . 
Secondly , we consider proposal No 2 to be very confused . 
It is difficult to understand , and we think the Commission would be well advised to look at it again . 
If further regulation is needed , we feel that it could be better achieved by other means than those proposed in the directive . 
In particular , we disagree with the proposal on capital requirements because if they are put too high they could actually drive some businesses out of the industry altogether . 
We ask the Commission to look again at these proposals . 
Finally , we would urge Members to vote in particular against Amendment No 41 on capital requirements , because we feel that this would be very bad for the industry . 
Mr President , money does not smell , as the Romans would say . 
The important thing is for money to generate more money . 
This is the only opportunity that we have to see to it that the interests of economists converge with those of people who want to earn money and have their mind set on dollars , like Disney ' s Scrooge McDuck , who has dollar signs for eyes , except in this case the symbol is that of the euro . 
In this we are combining the interests of these citizens with the interests of pensioners who want to live life in tranquillity . 
For example , my brother - in - law , who lives in Rome , started drawing his pension a year ago and every day since - from seven in the morning when he wakes until midnight - he has checked the TV screen to see how the pensions funds and the securities in which he has invested are performing . 
Pensioners will , in the future - as is already happening - have enormous sums of money at their disposal . 
Indeed , whilst the young are penniless , the elderly have accumulated money and , since they are keen to turn it to good advantage , harbour great hopes for this directive . 
If national governments had in their hearts - as the European Union has in its heart with this directive - the proliferation of money earned during the course of a working life , the pensions time bomb would already have been defused . 
You too , in your role , Commissioner Bolkestein , have a very great responsibility for the future of the elderly and of pensioners , a future that I hope will improve once we have finalised this directive , by which I mean very soon , as has been proposed by Mrs Villiers and Mrs Kauppi . 
 . 
 ( NL ) Mr President , could I first of all express my heartfelt thanks to rapporteur , Mr Olle Schmidt , and the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , which has principal authority , as well as the rapporteur , Mr Brian Crowley and the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market , whom I would like to thank for their thorough and important work on the refinement and extension of the proposals . 
Since the approval of Directive 85 / 611 , the investment funds sector has undergone lengthy development and it is now important to modernise the rules . 
The aim of the new proposals is to maintain the highest level of protection for the benefit of investors , which is an essential precondition for market integration resulting from the launch of the euro . 
Since the average European family puts its savings in investment funds , the proposals contain provisions on prudent management - and I would like to underline this - prudent management as far as investment policy and risk - spreading are concerned . 
The two proposals form a coherent whole . 
The first proposal extends the number of instruments in which an ' undertaking for collective investment in transferable securities '  ( UCITS ) can invest . 
As already remarked in this session , UCITS are key players within the modern capital markets . 
Their presence offers the opportunity to a larger number of ordinary investors to participate in these markets , in which the principle of risk - spreading is taken into consideration , protected by appropriate supervision . 
Since diverse types of investment are permitted , private investors can also benefit from all the advantages of new investment techniques . 
The second proposal expands the role which these important intermediary organisations can play within the EU capital markets in terms of developing the investment funds sector . 
By allowing branches to be set up and certain services to be provided on a cross - border basis , these organisations will at long last be able to apply the freedoms of the Treaty of Rome , which they have been denied for all these years . 
The Commission welcomes many of the clarifications proposed by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs with open arms and will adopt a large number of its ideas . 
The Commission will adopt Amendments Nos - and I am now referring to the most recent numbering - 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 9 , 13 , 19 and 21 for the first proposal , and 23 , 28 and 32 for the second proposal , since these are really very useful clarifications and improvements . 
I also value the ideas put forward in Amendments Nos 1 , 10 , 11 , 14 , 18 and 20 , although the wording needs to be adapted . 
I also endorse the rationale underlying the general maximum percentage of the counterparty risk in Amendments Nos 17 , 36 and 45 . 
I can also accept the idea in the second proposed paragraph of Amendment No 47 . 
All the amendments I have listed so far pertain to the first proposal . 
As far as the second proposal is concerned , the ideas of Amendments Nos 24 , 25 , 29 , 30 , 41 and some parts of 27 , which contain sensible suggestions , can be adopted , again formulated appropriately . 
The Commission has suggested adopting the content of these , with certain changes in the wording . 
Moreover , I have taken note of the request made by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to codify the entire text , once it has been approved - Amendment No 7 of the first proposal and Amendment No 22 of the second proposal . 
The Commission is in favour of codification and will , in the foreseeable future , once the proposals have been approved and subject to its right of initiative , concentrate its efforts on drafting a codified version . 
However , I cannot accept the wording of the consideration as it stands . 
The Commission is also of the opinion that a number of the amendments proposed by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs would fundamentally change the content of the first proposal . This is why the Commission regrets that it is unable to accept the following amendments to the first proposal : 
Amendment No 8 because the proposed , general reference to assets ' covered by this directive '  , instead of the more precise reference to assets ' mentioned in Article 19 of this Directive '  , hinders implementation . 
This Amendment could also lead to different interpretations in the Member States , which might well look for similar instruments in other articles of the directive . 
Amendment No 16 jeopardises the protection of investors because a blocked security deposit with a third party custodian is a contradiction in terms . 
Neither are securities lending transactions via securities clearing houses or exchanges - as opposed to the purchase and sale of securities - automatically covered by these institutions . 
We cannot , therefore , adopt the proposed Amendment for this reason . 
Amendment No 42 relates to a provision which was not changed by the proposal and which has not caused any problems since the implementation of the directive . 
I therefore cannot see any reason why Article 22 , paragraph 3 should be omitted and reject the amendment for this reason . 
Amendment No 44 cannot be accepted because , if it is prescribed that non - harmonised funds are subject to rules which have been ' imposed by the directive ' concerning lending , borrowing , selling from an uncovered position and the third party custodian , this will indeed lead to a situation where very few funds , for example Swiss funds , would be eligible for investment . 
This goes against the Commission ' s intention to widen the scope of investments , and the wording thereof could contravene GATS agreements . 
Amendment No 47 is unacceptable as far as the proposed changes to the first paragraph of Article 22a are concerned , because this proposal completely clashes with the spreading rules of Article 22 , especially when the UCITS are obliged to indicate a point of reference in their prospectuses , as discussed in the Council . 
The key issue regarding the first proposal , however , is Parliament ' s amendment which allows the use of over - the - counter instruments for general investment purposes . 
The Commission points out that , according to the national legislation of some Member States , the use of OTC derivatives for general investment purposes is already authorised . 
However , the Commission will be suspending its position , given the intrinsically high risks of these investments compared to the more traditional financial instruments . 
I believe that OTC instruments could lead to problems , because they are not liquid , the price is difficult to estimate and they entail uncovered counterparty risks . 
It seems inconsistent to opt for an extremely prudent approach with regard to investments as non - harmonised funds or deposits and , at the same time , freely to allow investments in clearly more risky OTC instruments . 
By rejecting the rapporteur ' s Amendment No 39 , the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has aligned itself with the Council . 
The upshot of this amendment by Parliament would be that funds are allowed , in theory , to invest in OTC instruments and to trade the rights of participation in their funds across the entire internal market . 
In practice , access to other EU markets for these theoretically harmonised funds which invest in OTC instruments can be blocked by applying different national legislative frameworks and protective measures against OTC investments . 
This would contravene the fact that EU legislation applies to all funds which invest in OTC instruments . 
Given this possibly negative effect on the internal market and the risks inherent in OTC instruments , the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 12 , 15 , 37 , 38 , 39 , 43 , 46 and 48 and parts of Amendments Nos 17 , 36 and 45 which pertain to OTC instruments . 
As far as the second proposal is concerned , I already mentioned that the Commission will take into consideration many amendments . 
Despite this , there are some amendments which the Commission cannot adopt : Amendment No 26 , which does not seem to observe the order in which licences are granted and activities start ; parts of Amendment No 27 , especially the part where the prevention of conflicts of interests is deleted , the delegation of tasks is restricted to components of management decisions and the general decision - taking of Member States concerning delegation is repealed ; Amendment No 31 because the Commission is of the opinion that the application of Article 44 of the directive in unchanged form has proved adequate for the trading in rights of participation in UCITS . 
The application of the provisions of the directive concerning the performance of services in the field of investments in securities , better known as ISD , is therefore unnecessary and could lead to difficulties or confusion . 
Amendment No 33 is ambiguous regarding ' the language ' of the guest member state , especially when there are various official languages , and it is questionable what will be gained from translations in two other languages . 
Amendment No 34 is unacceptable because a simple deletion of the reference to pension funds can create ambiguity as to whether or not a management company can carry out these activities . 
I think that pension funds could also benefit from this possibility , provided that management companies are not lumped together with pension funds , but may only carry out part of the management per delegation . 
Amendment No 35 cannot be accepted because legally , it cannot command any authority . 
Management companies which are denied access to a Member State would need to re - incorporate as a different legal entity in order to be permitted in another Member State . 
Amendments Nos 49 , 50 and 51 , which share the same basis , are not acceptable because they make substantial changes to the consistent approach of the Commission regarding the regulations of third party delegation , and do not offer sufficient security to the competent authorities and investors . 
I would like to finish off by commenting on the remarks made by a few Members this morning and , Mr President , with your permission , I will do this in English . 
First of all , regarding the remarks of Mr Crowley , who asked whether the second proposal could not simply consist in taking over a pure ISD approach ; the objections of the Commission to that proposal would be the following : such an approach would pose difficulties which would arise from two different authorisations which may even involve different authorities and non - consistent sets of rules ; moreover there would be no provisions whatsoever on conflicts of interest . 
For example , a management company might be doing underwriting business and , if not able to sell , it would put the securities in the fund it would manage , or else there might be difficulties in which order business should be executed if the management company did brokering business . 
Furthermore the proposal put forward by Mr Crowley would require a change of the ISD which at present - as I am sure he already knows - does not cover collective management business . 
Lastly , his proposal would not give any passport to management companies which do not want to render ISD activities . 
As regards the question put by Mr Huhne , his reference in the intervention he made this morning is to hedging operations . 
But hedging operations are already allowed in the existing Article 21 ( 1 ) of Directive 611 / 85 on UCITS . 
So what Mr Huhne wants is already possible . 
A question has been put by Mrs Villiers who referred to enhancing portfolio management . 
That is also something which is allowed under present legislation . 
I refer to the same Article 21 I referred to in relation to Mr Huhne ' s question . 
In her question Mrs Kauppi asks why the Commission has prepared a package of measures distributed in two separate proposals . 
The reason is that the first proposal focuses essentially on the product , while the second proposal focuses essentially on the service provider , and on prospectuses for UCITS . 
The separation of these two proposals which deal with two different sets of problems would facilitate the negotiating process in the Council . 
The Commission has not only to listen to Parliament and take into account parliamentary proposals but , as is well - known , must also deal with the Council . 
That is the reason why the Commission has put forward these two separate proposals . 
Lastly , Mr Balfe has complained that there are , in his opinion , too many limits in the whole proposal the Commission has put forward . 
It seems to us that these limits are justified : firstly , by the need to diversify investments ; secondly , because of the vulnerability to the need to reimburse investment at any time ; thirdly , in order to avoid an inordinate influence over the investment funds . 
These are the reasons why the Commission believes , because of the prudence that has to be exercised in this field , that these various limits are necessary . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place at 12 noon . 
Mutual assistance in criminal matters between the Member States
The next item is the report ( A5 - 0019 / 2000 ) by Mr Di Pietro on behalf of the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms , and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs on the draft Council Act establishing the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , in letters dated 3 August 1999 and 3 December 1999 , the Council called on the European Parliament , pursuant to Article 39 of the Treaty , to deliver its opinion on a draft convention between the Member States aimed at guaranteeing improved mutual assistance in criminal matters . 
It is thus , as you can see , a very important draft , that will effectively serve to provide the Member States of the Union with a more comprehensive and consistent instrument for mutual assistance . 
In actual fact , there are still certain differences of opinion within the Council over the type of convention , and over certain provisions contained therein . 
Some of these differences have already been ironed out , but others persist . 
The spirit of the proposal is nevertheless to equip those responsible for applying the law - primarily the judiciary , but also the citizens concerned - with a valid operational instrument to fight crime , which respects fundamental guarantees as regards defence and general principles of human rights . 
It is for this reason that , despite the many omissions in the text , the provisions set out therein could - and I say could , Mr President - be accepted on condition that they are suitably amended in order to ensure they can be implemented by those responsible for applying the law and are acceptable to the citizens . 
The Commission has proposed various amendments to this end , all of which aim to systematically restructure the Council proposal by suggesting a series of technical adjustments that will render the text harmonious and consistent as regards the amendments proposed . 
The amendments can be summarised as follows : they place greater emphasis on fundamental rights of defence , introduce a range of technical modifications needed to make a whole series of obscure and inconsistent passages more comprehensible , and delete the section relating to the remote interception of telecommunications , an area which still requires not only increased technical awareness but also acceptance on the part of the governments of the various Member States of the Union . 
The proposal , as formulated by the Council and subsequently amended by the Commission , provides for a convention based on three titles : the first lays down guidelines for ensuring the consistency of procedures and formalities for letters rogatory ; the second lists a whole series of specific requests for mutual assistance and defines the formalities and procedures which must be followed in relation to these specific types of mutual assistance ; the third and last provides for and codifies the procedures via which telephone conversations conducted by citizens in a State other than the one instigating proceedings can and must be intercepted . 
Mr President , international cooperation is certainly needed in order to tackle both cross - border crime and crimes which are committed in one State , but the evidence for which is to be found in another . 
It is nevertheless necessary to reach agreement as soon as possible on a new convention which will also take other , even more delicate issues into account : the whole issue of double jeopardy , that of specialities , and that of the credibility of one Member State of the Union in respect of the judicial authorities of other Member States of the Union . 
These are thus extremely important questions , which we hope that the Council will see fit to take up when formulating a new opinion . 
As regards other aspects of this subject , Mr President , I would refer you to my written report . 
 -  ( ES ) Mr President , I want to start by saying that I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party which I represent on this issue . 
I should like to draw attention to the fact that the Council is not present today . 
By contrast , I welcome the attentive presence of Commissioner Vitorino , as has consistently been the case since his appointment . This leads me to another point . 
This House has only prepared one report on this Convention . It was in fact consulted on a text which was not the text being worked on by the Council and which did not contain points which had already been agreed . 
I condemn this , as well as the Council ' s absence . 
These are serious matters on which this House must act . 
We are about to advance into new territory where attitudes and symbols are of great significance . 
A political community is reflected in the justice which it hands out . 
This is why this report is so important . 
It represents a step towards the area of freedom , security and , particularly , justice to which we all aspire . It is also an important step towards European natural justice . 
This will be built on mutual confidence between the Member States and their respective legal systems and on the confidence of the European people in any European court . It will also be built on scrupulous respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and on the guarantee of fair trials in particular . 
It is in this respect that this House has significantly - and in my opinion rightly - altered the balance proposed by the Council by firmly and decidedly supporting a reinforcement of these guarantees of fair trials in all the amendments . 
Mr President , as the rapporteur said , this House has concentrated on the particular issue of phone tapping in order to remove this from the Convention . 
On behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party , I have tabled an amendment to the motion for a resolution which asks the Council to produce a text on this issue as soon as possible . 
The regulation of phone tapping in the Council document was incomplete and therefore inadequate . 
Yet a lack of regulation is also inappropriate and may lead to abuses in the telecommunications field . In fact , we are aware that these are already happening widely . 
The other point which I must highlight and on which we have also worked extensively is the use of video conferencing with regard to accused persons . 
Again on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party , I have asked the Council to produce a convention as soon as possible in order to clarify and supplement the regulation of this issue , which is frankly unsatisfactory . 
Apart from a few exceptions , the Members of the Group of the European People ' s Party will vote in favour of the committee ' s amendments , and of course our own . 
Mr President , it is our opinion that one facet of the construction of Europe hinges on the construction of a common judicial system , for the Europe that we want to build , which comprises administrative law , civil law , both substantive and procedural , and criminal law , both substantive and procedural . 
The Convention on Mutual Assistance and Criminal Matters , which we are examining today , is but a stitch in the great fabric of the corpus iuris of Europe , which has its natural foundation in fundamental human rights and freedoms . 
Thus it is that legal cooperation and cooperation on criminal matters must also strictly respect fundamental rights , principles which lie at very root of our culture and our civilisation : I am thinking of fair trials , and more particularly of the rights of the defence , of the impartiality and integrity of judges , of the length of legal proceedings , for which my country , Italy , unfortunately has the worst record in terms of the number of sentences handed down , of the cases pending before the European Court of Human Rights . 
Restrictions on fundamental rights cannot and must not be applied to the field of law unless they are justified in that they are associated with an actual or presumed violation of criminal law . 
The report that the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights has substantially amended with regard to its original formula , taking up many of the amendments we have presented , still leaves room for a certain confusion , in relation to the way in which the interception of telecommunications and video conferences are to be regulated . 
The news received in recent weeks on the way in which modern technologies facilitate interceptions mean that greater attention must be paid to this issue : we would not want our reality to be even more harsh and troubled than the dark scenes depicted by Orwell . 
This is only the beginning of a great project in the field of law , which should advance hand in hand with the growth the type of Europe we want to see . 
