Mr President , committee amendments and political group amendments may be tabled in plenary , but not amendments from individual Members . 
Mr Schulz should be aware of this . 
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I fully understand the frustration of Mr Di Pietro who , in a short space of time , has had to carry out an extraordinary amount of work in order to be able to submit this report to us today . 
Crime in the European Union has increased to such an extent that we cannot and must not content ourselves any longer with a step - by - step approach of mutual legal assistance in criminal affairs . 
The European Parliament is certainly not to blame for this . 
It is the governments of the Member States who have restricted the amount of leeway to this degree . 
As a result , the European Parliament is faced with an almost impossible task . 
One has to content oneself with the idea that all means , however slight , must be seized upon in order to set up better legal assistance . 
By way of paradox , I could say that it would be best if as little as possible was said about this report , for the clearer we make it that only very small steps are being taken , the more the world of crime will gloat and the more the acute imbalance between organised crime and the desperate lack of judicial cooperation will become obvious . 
I would therefore make an urgent appeal to the Council of Ministers to finally face reality , that is to say the fact that crime is developing faster than the law . 
The goal is , after all , to provide the judicial bodies - magistrates , in the first place , but also the citizens involved - with the instruments to fight crime without prejudice to the fundamental guarantees of defence and the general principles of human rights . 
If not , we will be fighting a running battle . 
I therefore advocate further harmonisation of criminal law in the EU Member States in the first instance . 
In my opinion , this is the only way to fight crime effectively across all Member States . 
As long as this harmonisation has not been achieved , however , we need to be consistent if we want to bring about mutual legal assistance . 
To this end , I had submitted an amendment stipulating that legal assistance can only be granted in the event of criminal prosecution instituted by the authorities based on facts which are punishable according to the national law of the petitioning party and the Member State petitioned . 
The content of my amendment is , in fact , echoed in Amendment No 43 , which also stipulates this condition of accrual . 
This condition of accrual is essential since , in my opinion , the principle of nulla poena sine lege , legality in criminal law , must be observed . 
As such , any request for legal assistance concerning a hypothetical action which is not a crime in the petitioned Member State contravenes this principle of legality and thus the fundamental principles of justice in the petitioned Member State . 
Hence , it is extremely important that this condition of accrual be adopted . 
Finally , I would like to reiterate that Mr Di Pietro has , in my opinion , delivered sterling work by submitting a report which , within the limitations , offers all possible guarantees for safeguarding individual human rights and fundamental freedoms . 
If , however , we would like to give European citizens a greater sense of security , we need to step up our efforts in the field of judicial cooperation . 
Mr President , my Group is delighted about the fact that an agreement will be reached to regulate the day - to - day practice of mutual assistance in legal affairs . 
The aim of regulations is to define the reciprocal rights and duties of States or citizens or those applicable in the relationship between citizens and government . 
The present proposal is complex , because it deals with agreements between Member States but has far - reaching consequences for the citizen - government relationship . 
It is precisely in the field of legal protection that the Council ' s proposal leaves a great deal to be desired . 
In the words of rapporteur Mr Di Pietro , the proposal even contains colossal shortcomings . 
Thanks to the agreement , it is possible to create a chain of legal assistance requests , whereby each link represents authorities and criminal law systems of different Member States . 
The chain is arranged in such a way as to ensure that it cannot fall as a whole within the competence of one court . 
Additional measures are hence required , such as the obligation on the part of criminal investigators to give evidence in every criminal case in which their material is used . 
The fact that the Council ' s proposal rides roughshod over the principle of proportionality is also hard to deal with for my Group . 
There are certainly no restrictions in its scope . 
As such , the agreement applies not only to fighting serious crimes and organised crime . 
In fact , it is not written anywhere that it is restricted to criminal law . 
It is , therefore , conceivable that the European Union will soon be taking a sledgehammer to crack a nut and that the rights of the citizen will vanish in the dust . 
Mr President , the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters that we are examining today contains the minimum requirements for efficient and rapid cooperation between the various judicial or investigative bodies concerned . 
It pertains , among other things , to notifications , information exchanges , the temporary transfer of detainees , the restitution of property , testimonies via video conferences , investigative activities and ' undercover ' activities , and the interception of telephone calls . 
This is the bare minimum on which an agreement can be reached , and it should immediately be said that if any amendments , such as Amendments Nos 32 or 81 , or the revised Amendments Nos 70 or 71 , were to be passed , the whole convention would be reduced to an exchange of notifications or information and at this point should simply be scrapped , and we would vote against it . 
I hope that the common sense of our fellow MEPs in the other groups will lead them to reject these amendments . 
The fact that the convention has not been turned into a framework agreement also constitutes a defeat for this Parliament . 
As Commissioner Vitorino will have noted in all the various speeches , the need has emerged to draw up a framework of common rules , which is to say that we cannot continue in this manner , with this disparate agenda , with these piecemeal agreements which relate to diverse sectors such as that of investigation . 
What is , on the other hand , absolutely necessary is to have a bare minimum of set rules that are valid within the Community , and which clearly provide as many additional safeguards as possible , and will also provide guarantees with a view to enlargement . 
My thoughts turn to what may become of this Community , of these conventions and judicial relations if , for example , a fascist country such as Turkey became a member of the Union . It would truly perplex me . 
We need a corpus iuris - as everyone has said - and common rules , especially procedural ones , which guarantee the rule of common law throughout the Community . 
It is clear that this is primarily an issue for the IGC and one that addresses an aspiration to which this Parliament can only make a limited contribution in as much as everything depends on the Council and the Commission . 
I believe that this first half of the year , in which we have a Commissioner from Portugal and Portuguese Presidency of the Council , provides an excellent opportunity to give an initial spur to this shared aspiration . 
It is precisely for this reason that we are in favour of adopting Amendments Nos 78 and 79 , which already prefigure a minimum of set rules on interceptions and on video conferences . 
On the one hand , we eagerly await the successful outcome of this vote , precisely so that this convention - which , I repeat , already sets minimum rules - is not stripped of all meaning , while on the other hand we are also looking forward to any form of proposal that may arrive from the Commission with a view to definitively putting into effect this minimum Community law . 
Mr President , confronted with the burgeoning phenomenon of organised crime at international level , the Member States must surely cooperate with one another as much as possible . 
Indeed , they must set in place the institutional conditions needed to launch a tangible and efficient cooperation process in the field of law - a process that must nevertheless cover all the stages needed to prevent the untimely impositions that are detrimental to legitimate national prescriptions in the field of justice , over which Member States have sovereign powers , and above all to prevent impositions that result in riding roughshod over basic civil rights . 
We must therefore proceed with caution with regard to a document like the one from the Council which , as the rapporteur himself has underlined , now claims , after years of discussion , to have found a universal solution in the space of a few months . 
Furthermore - and I agree with the assessment made by Mr Di Pietro - the Council ' s text would appear to be overladen with contradictions , inconsistent propositions and omissions . 
It is clear that the justice sector , more than any other , cannot be handled in an inconsistent or contradictory manner . 
It is the opinion of our Group that even the report , considered as a whole , would be the subject of much debate , notwithstanding the incorporation of certain corrective amendments that take into account the safeguarding of personal liberty and respect for national sovereignties . 
The report contains arguments that are too disparate , which do not link together smoothly , and everything thus hinges on approximations . 
We will , in conclusion , vote against this report , while stressing that the Europe to which we aspire is a Europe of rights and guarantees : rights and guarantees that call for gradual and responsible discussion , as well as very serious examination . 
We must first establish general rules and institutional certainties . Only then will we be able to institute actual conventions . 
Mr President , on behalf of the Members of Parliament on the Bonino List , I intend to confirm the position that we adopted in the Committee on Civil Liberties and am thus also announcing our vote on their behalf . It is a vote against this report , or more precisely a vote against the convention on which the report is based . 
I would nevertheless like to thank the rapporteur and congratulate him on his work . He listened very closely to our arguments at the committee stage , and particularly those on the issue of respecting the rights of the defence , both at national level and at the level of cooperation on criminal law as part of European mutual assistance . 
The committee and the rapporteur have incorporated nine of the eleven amendments that we presented , and these centred precisely on the rights of the defence . 
This spurs us to maintain that the European Parliament would have done sterling work in guaranteeing that civil rights and freedoms were safeguarded , if this were a lawmaking parliament and if we were , as part of this procedure , in fact co - legislators - which we are not . 
This is the problem , and it is for this reason that we are critical of the position adopted by the Council , which is one we find completely unsatisfactory . 
This is a task that has lasted three years , and on which we have been consulted , so to speak , as a matter of course , when this issue , as has already been stressed , comprises highly important formal and substantive facets , which called for a range of assessments , consultations , concerted actions and codecisions . 
It would seem to us that the Council has taken the various issues - those of legitimate interceptions , the rights of the defence , the rights of detainees and of the authorities legally empowered to request mutual assistance - a little too lightly . 
We should have requested and rejected the first version of the convention , and then requested another : the majority on the committee did not want this and it is for this reason that we will vote against it , even if we hope that the amendments , which nevertheless improve the text , can be incorporated by the Council - we doubt that they will be , but hope all the same that they are . 
In my Group , there are undoubtedly different views of Mr Di Pietro ' s report . 
I agree that it is - as has been said - a good and competent piece of work , which has been carried out under difficult conditions . 
The Danish Members of the Group cannot vote in favour of the proposal but will , on the contrary , be supporting a number of amendments , especially those tabled by the Greens . 
There are two reasons why we are saying no . 
Firstly , these are immensely complicated and very sensitive legal questions which are at issue and , to my mind , the proposal entails some risks to legal certainty , which have not been fully realised . 
This is in itself sufficient reason for us to deny our support . 
The other main reason , however , is that , even though we are concerned here with a Convention ( and therefore with international cooperation ) , there is no doubt about the trend expressed in the proposal . 
And the trend is towards creating , in the longer term , a common European area of jurisdiction , common EU criminal law and common EU administration of justice . 
We would warn against that trend . 
We have this AFSJ mantra - Area of Freedom , Security and Justice - the full enormity of which lies in its establishment of EU systems which will play havoc with existing legal traditions relating to these sensitive and important questions which are overwhelmingly national in character . 
Mr President , I too agree that the convention that we are examining is but a small step - and still too small a step - towards the construction of the common area of freedom , security and justice which Europe will hopefully one day become . 
It is today an area for the free movement of goods and persons , in which there are no frontiers to crime , but in which significant barriers still exist to those whose duty it is to combat crime . 
A small step - I say - but nonetheless a welcome one , for which the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs has quite correctly wanted to prescribe further restrictions and guarantees in the name of the defence of the fundamental rights of the individual that are in force in the Member States and in the Union itself , even if these are not yet enshrined in a European Union charter of rights , which we hope will soon come into being : just restrictions and guarantees because , unfortunately , existing rights are , in practice , not always respected by every public authority in every Member State . 
Certain isolated passages in the Commission ' s proposal perhaps err on the side of caution , as is the case when it is maintained that the detainee accused should be given the choice of whether to accept or refuse temporary transfer to another Member State of the Union for the purposes of preliminary enquiries . 
I personally find it unacceptable , for example , for Mr Pinochet to be given the option to move to Spain for a confrontation . 
Or when it is maintained that the witness or expert witness - and not simply the defendant - should have a counsel at their side during examination via a video or telephone link . 
These are nevertheless minor flaws , which the rapporteur did not want and which - I hope - will be remedied when this Chamber comes to vote . 
The rapporteur has made laudable efforts , which should not go unnoted and for which I would like to thank him . 
The overall result is remarkable and I hope that the Council will fully take it into account . 
There is , as has already been said , one point still to resolved , which is also the most delicate one : it concerns article 18 of the convention , which relates to the interception of communications originating in one Member State , but which are directly performed by another Member State , without the assistance being requested of the State in which the interception is being carried out , something which is now possible thanks to the latest technology . 
This is a highly controversial issue as it constitutes a potential source of abuse . 
It could be maintained that in overall terms the legislation proposed is better than nothing , but to the Commission it nevertheless appeared insufficient and far from reassuring . 
It thus merits further reflection which , at a time in which the ambivalent reports on ECHELON are evoking shades of Big Brother , should probably go into greater detail on the means and methods to be used , on the one hand , to safeguard the rights of the individual , and on the other hand to facilitate an effective but at the same time correct and legitimate suppression of crime . 
The objective is thus to achieve , as closely as possible , a fine balance between the fight against organised crime and respect for personal freedoms and the dignity of the individual : an objective which now specifically applies not only to the Member States , but also to the Union , which is aspiring to become a common area of freedom , justice and security . 
This is a distant goal , but is one that can be attained in stages . 
The most important thing will be the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States , but for now let us content ourselves with this small step forward , as it is a step in the right direction . 
Mr President , first of all I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent explanatory statement . 
It points out some of the serious flaws in this proposal . 
The lack of clarity of language is inevitably going to lead to legal uncertainty . 
Legal certainty is something that is essential in such crucial matters . 
Because of shoddy drafting the Convention can be interpreted very widely , and it ignores the strict conditions which interception is supposed to be subject to under the European Convention on Human Rights . 
Article 18 allows interception in another Member State without its involvement . 
Not only should this be deleted , the whole interception title should be scrapped . 
An initiative of the FBI drew up the user requirements which form the basis of the current legislation . 
The Council proposal containing those requirements , ENFOPOL 98 was approved by this Parliament last May in the Schmid report . 
Now we are being asked to provide the legal base for such interception , and it is the combination of these two documents that should be looked at . 
The requirements propose to allow the authorities access to the facilities of all service providers , that is , telephones , mobile phones , Internet , etc . ; and given the current extremely shoddy drafting , this is open to abuse . 
I would also like to ask : given that the user requirements specify that the police has access to all service providers without exception , does this include Parliament ' s in - house service ? 
Are we adopting rules that will allow the police access to our own systems on very , very shoddy grounds ? 
Furthermore , in this proposal there is no threshold for serious offences . 
This leaves it wide open to abuse . 
Again as regards the reversal of the burden of proof , something which is recognised in international , fundamental law , the presumption of innocence is essential . 
That is not guaranteed . 
Neither the preamble nor the body of the text takes proper account of the rights of the defence , a basic principle of international fundamental rights . 
This issue is extremely serious . 
We are very concerned about the direction we are taking here without proper public debate within the national parliaments or elsewhere and without the involvement of civil liberties organisations throughout Europe which are extremely concerned about these developments . 
Mr President , I am neither a member of the Legal Affairs Committee nor a lawyer , but like almost all of us , I understand the need for this Single Economic Area of Europe to have its parallel in a single area of freedom , security and justice . 
In that sense , the issues of judicial cooperation in matters of criminal law are important . 
What did I understand on reading the related texts ? 
That it is dangerous to rely on the provisions made by the Council . The many contradictions and conflicting views over what Europe is and the many different legal systems could not only lead to confusion and inefficiency but also create dangerous situations . 
For example , the situation proposed by Article 18 , to which many speakers have drawn attention , where each country , each large country if you will , each country with the technical ability , can enter another country and monitor its telecommunications without even securing the second country ' s approval . 
In my opinion , the Legal Affairs Committee and the rapporteur Mr Di Pietro have produced some very interesting work . 
It is a pity that this very well constructed explanatory statement by Mr Di Pietro could not be conveyed in the telegrammatic five minutes he had here today . 
Nevertheless , it is a move towards protecting the rights of countries , defendants and citizens , a path which I think must be pursued much more completely and much more boldly . 
I should like , however , to draw your attention to the fact that all this is taking place in a framework in which there is confusion and a schizophrenic attitude about criminal law . 
A child , a student or a pupil who smokes hashish in one country is dealt with in an educational way , while in another country he is treated as a criminal and locked up in the universities of crime constituted by the corrective system and the prisons . 
How can there be any cooperation on criminal matters on that basis ? 
For that reason , in conclusion , I believe we should do something , particularly in the area of harmonisation of laws , not those relating to organised criminal activity , but those concerning punishable activities by the people which are more in the nature of social phenomena . 
On behalf of the TDI Group , I should like to take the opportunity afforded by Judge Di Pietro ' s report on mutual assistance in criminal matters to refer to a case which is a tragic illustration of the way crime is eroding security in Europe . 
On 14 December 1999 , a five year - old boy called Clément was found in a sleeping - car on the Calais - Ventimiglia train , crying for his mother who was taking him to visit his sick grandmother . 
Corinne Caillaux , who had probably been raped , was found with her throat cut and covered in stab wounds in the lavatories on the train . 
The presumed killer , Sid Ahmed Rezala , is also strongly suspected of having murdered the British student Isabel Peake , who was raped and thrown out of the train taking her to see her parents , and another young woman , Émilie Bazin , who was found dead in Amiens under a pile of coal in the building where he lived . 
Rezala should never have been in France . He arrived from Algeria at a time when , according to the authorities , immigration had been stopped and there was no reason for him to come . 
He should never have stayed in France , having been reported to the transport police more than 40 times for offences , which should have been enough for him to be expelled back to his home country . 
He should never have been free because 14 charges of theft , violence and rape had been brought against him , one of which was for the rape of a minor . 
He should never have been able to escape from France , but the officers pursuing him had no jurisdiction and European frontiers have more holes than a sieve . 
He should never have arrived in Spain , where he mugged a woman at knifepoint and yet was immediately released by the Spanish authorities . 
Today , thanks to the complex networks of sexual deviants , he is in Portugal . 
Portugal refuses to extradite him on the grounds that he would face a longer prison sentence in France than that provided for in the Portuguese penal code . 
I should like to ask the Portuguese minister , the President - in - Office of the Council , to put a stop to this scandal at once . 
I should like to ask the House to wake up , at long last , to the appalling situation of the victims of policies for which the establishment , not the yobs , bears full responsibility . 
Mr President , this agreement deals with a sensitive issue : cooperation in the field of criminal law . 
It is therefore understandable that the Council finds it difficult to agree . 
Successful application of this agreement by the Member States requires unanimity within the Council . 
Only a broadly based agreement makes any sense in practice . 
This , however , does not mean that the Council can work on this anonymously . 
Quite the reverse , in fact . The Council ' s proposal must comply with legislation of the national Member States in the field of criminal law . 
The wish to reach a unanimous decision can lead to compromises which do not stand this test . 
Careful parliamentary scrutiny by the European Parliament but , above all , by the national parliaments , is therefore of key importance . 
Mr Di Pietro ' s proposal to omit the current Article 18 regarding intercepting telecommunications , amongst other things , is understandable , although very strict . 
The text of Article 18 is ambiguous : he is restricting the activities of the intelligence services but seems to allow interception activities by a Member State in another Member State without the latter ' s prior authorisation . 
In this way , Member States would make themselves very vulnerable and it is doubtful as to whether there are sufficient guarantees to protect the State where interception occurs and the citizens within that State . 
Proposed additions , such as repeated references to the ECHR , the rights of the counsel for the defence and of the defendant and the failure of Member States to implement the ECHR , add too much unnecessary information to the text of the agreement . 
I am aware of the problems but I think that these could have been clarified by means of one single change in the text . 
The Dutch Members of the Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities will , however , despite hesitation , not withhold their support for the Di Pietro report in the final vote . 
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , this report is very important not only in terms of its content but also because it represents an initial step towards the establishment of better relations in judicial cooperation . 
This clearly only applies to relations at national level as nothing is mentioned about the much - discussed European citizenship . 
On one hand judicial measures fall outside the Community dimension yet on the other we have the free movement of people from which criminals are also benefiting . 
Pursuant to Article 29 of the EU Treaty , the Union ' s objective is ' to provide citizens with a high level of safety within an area of freedom , security and justice by developing common action among the Member States in the fields of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and by preventing and combating racism and xenophobia '  . 
The creation of Europol represents one step towards achieving this objective . However , we must take the next step , which is to reinforce judicial cooperation in criminal matters in order to gradually establish a genuine European judicial area consistent with the objective of creating an area of freedom , security and justice . 
This draft convention therefore aims to complete and facilitate the application , at Member State level , of pre - existing conventions on other legal areas . The intention is to improve judicial cooperation in criminal matters through rapid and effective legal assistance while still fully respecting the fundamental rights of the defence and the general principles of human rights enshrined in the national law of the Member States and in the European Convention on Human Rights . 
It is this concern for basic rights , freedoms and guarantees which has led us to support the deletion from the text of the phone tapping proposals . We recommend that the Council prepare a separate legal instrument to resolve this issue . 
As for videoconferencing , more precise regulations must be established so that the rights of the defence and guarantees of fair trials are safeguarded . 
The procedural aspect of the legal system must be respected by defending the rights . . . 
 ( The President cut the speaker off ) 
Mr President , legislating in criminal matters is often countered , wrongly , with arguments of individual freedom and security . 
Is one secure when freedoms are no longer guaranteed ? 
Is one free when security is no longer assured ? 
Modern criminal law revolves around the quest for a balance , a dialogue between security and freedom . 
And this dialogue is open - ended ; it adapts to the demands of the day . 
Nowadays , certain forms of crime are cross - border crimes and it is , of course , in the interests of the Member States to improve cooperation so that they can crack down on them . 
But the Council ' s draft leaves a lot to be desired and attracts criticism on several counts . 
First , the form : the draft convention is vague in the extreme , and this is totally incompatible with the objective of legal certainty in a modern society . 
It is not just a question of style . 
We are taking about criminal law here and criminal law has to be interpreted by the letter . 
Then the content : the Council draft fudges the obvious difficulty caused by widely differing legal systems , varying practices and a total lack of legal public service standards in certain Member States of the Union . 
It makes provision in article 9 for prisoners held in custody to be transferred from one state to another despite the fact that guarantees differ . 
I should like to stress this point because it is paramount . 
We must not forget that several tens of thousands of people are currently held in custody in the European Union without having stood trial and that , in some states , custody is abused and used as a means of extorting confessions . 
It is nothing less than legal torture . 
Other European countries , on the other hand , do not accept confession as sufficient proof of guilt . 
It is this diversity in our criminal policies which we have to address and legislating properly means looking for genuine legal convergence criteria and facing up to the reality of prisons in Europe , which are often overcrowded places outside the law which are a disgrace to the conception we have of ourselves . 
Mr President , as you know , all of our countries abolished the death penalty years ago , but with nearly a thousand suicides a year in our prisons , they have not really abolished it ? 
Mr President , co - operation in the field of law is without doubt essential in free market Europe , but it must hinge on the strictest respect for those principles which lie at the very heart of our civilisation : the fundamental human rights and freedoms , laid down in the European Convention on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms . 
We can but thank the parliamentary committees , which have - via the introduction of numerous amendments - made far - reaching modifications aimed at providing guarantees to a report which , in its initial format , we did not find at all convincing . 
I turn to Mr Schulz in confirming that we always submit amendments not on a personal basis or for personal motives , but in connection with general political concerns . 
If it is then a question of listing the areas investigated or researching these , they can be found with the rapporteurs , among them the author of the report on this convention . 
I thus believe that Mr Schulz could have spared himself the effort of making certain remarks . 
As I have said , numerous amendments have been incorporated which guarantee the rights of the defence - I am thinking here of the obligation for interceptions to be requested by a judge - or the prohibition on holding both an investigative and a judicial mandate as part of a joint investigation team . 
In brief , this Parliament wanted the convention to apply solely to criminal matters ; the restrictions on freedom and on fundamental rights set out in the convention can but be limited to criminal matters . 
We need hard and fast rules . 
The Council has behaved in an unseemly manner , changing tack in mid - course , and is nowhere to be seen . 
We would , on the other hand , like to thank Commissioner Vitorino for attending the debate held in this Chamber . 
As I have said , we need hard and fast rules if we are to have fair trials in Europe - without intrusion from interceptions , without the illicit use of video conferences - because we in Europe should no longer have trials run by magistrates who play politics rather than administer justice , and because punishment should be meted out to the real perpetrators of crime and not to innocent people who someone finds inconvenient . 
 . 
Mr President , the draft Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union is approaching adoption by the Council . 
Most say it is about time . 
According to the action plan to combat organised crime adopted by the Council in April 1997 , the work on the draft MLA Convention should have been finalised before the end of 1997 . 
More time will pass before the Convention actually enters into force , given the fact that this requires Member States ' ratification . 
Even with the new rules introduced by the Treaty of Amsterdam , foreseeing its entry into force once at least half of the Member States have adopted the Convention , I would like to urge the Member States to do everything in their power to speedily ratify this Convention . 
Past experience with ratification of European Union conventions in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters is unfortunately disappointing . 
This Convention will not create a new or different system of Mutual Assistance . 
Instead it aims at building on tried and tested mechanisms that have been in place for a very long time , such as the ones foreseen by the Council of Europe Convention on mutual assistance of 1959 and the Benelux Treaty . 
The draft that the Council has elaborated contains provisions on a variety of matters that have been discussed by several Members of Parliament . 
It is a considerable achievement of the Convention that where at all possible requested Member States shall comply with the formalities and procedures indicated by the requesting Member States . 
This is particularly important with regard to the possibility of using evidence that is obtained in court . 
Furthermore , requests can be made directly between the competent authorities without any need to go via central authorities . 
Generally speaking , there are two kinds of provisions : those that create an obligation to render assistance , such as the provisions on telephone and video conferences , controlled deliveries and on the interception of telecommunications ; and those where no such obligation is created and only a legal framework is provided for Member States that wish to cooperate in the manner prescribed , for example , the provisions on joint investigation teams , covert investigations and the sending and service of procedural documents . 
The Commission particularly welcomes the inclusion of provisions that deal with new or modern investigative techniques , given their effectiveness in fighting the form of crime that is best placed to take advantage of the opening of borders - organised crime . 
It is all too easy to get carried away by the obvious need to improve the effectiveness of criminal investigations . 
However , one aspect of any action with regard to criminal procedures must not be forgotten - the right of defence . 
I very much appreciate that the report of Mr Di Pietro , whom I salute for the excellent work he has done in such a short period of time , includes the right of defence as one of its main points . 
At the present time it is entirely up to the Member States to ensure that those rights are respected under the scrutiny of the Council of Europe ' s Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg . 
It remains to be seen whether this will change with the new European Union Charter on Fundamental Rights , work on which has just begun . 
We must recognise that Article 18 concerns what is clearly a controversial decision . 
The article was carefully crafted in Council in very lengthy discussions , in order to ensure that intelligence activities would remain effective and that criminal investigations will be covered . 
As far as criminal investigations are concerned , for which I am responsible , I take note of the invitation that was addressed to the Commission and the Council by several Members of the European Parliament to take this issue on board and to address it on a common legal basis , having regard to the relevance the interception of telecommunications may have as evidence before the courts . 
The Commission is fully aware of the fact that the draft we have before us is not perfect or ideal . 
However , we must be realistic . 
The text we have is the result of the mixture of the institutional set - ups foreseen for judicial cooperation in criminal matters under both the Maastricht and Amsterdam Treaties respectively . 
This is what we have , and only practical experience will show us in detail if and where there are shortcomings and what additional steps will have to be taken . 
I am quite aware of the fact that the further development of mutual trust and mutual confidence among the judicial systems of the Member States will ease the road we have ahead of us . 
Apart from that , the Tampere European Council has already indicated in which direction we , in the Commission , should go . 
Among the steps to be taken will be the implementation of the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions and the setting - up of the Euro Just project . 
The Commission sincerely hopes that the European Parliament will support its efforts to make progress in these important fields . 
I do not expect you to wave through or rubber stamp everything you are confronted with in the coming years . 
I am counting more on the European Parliament to be not only a critical observer , as it has been in this case , but also an active player in taking the Union forward in the fight against crime . 
VOTE
Mr Goebbels , I am sorry , but I think you are jumping the gun ; Amendment No 37 is an oral amendment proposing that the words ' with a high rating base on a recognised rating scale ' be moved . You were asking for the place to be changed . 
Madam President , my apologies , I was looking at Amendment No 36 , which logically precedes Amendment No 37 . 
But , you are right , we are discussing Amendment No 37 and here too we have a similar problem . 
It is not the establishments but the instruments which should have a high rating . 
The text therefore reads :  ' instruments with a high rating base on a recognised rating scale are subject to reliable and verifiable valuation '  . 
My apologies once again for my mistake . 
Are there any objections to this oral amendment ? 
 ( Parliament adopted the oral amendment ) 
 ( Parliament adopted the two legislative resolutions in two separate votes ) 
