Madam President , particularly out of respect for you , for myself and for this House , I did not want to explicitly refer to the issue in question . However , as a Member of this House , as general secretary of a party in the Basque Country and as an ordinary citizen of Spain , I will do so now because of the extremely serious accusations made against individuals and against parties like my own , which has a long democratic tradition , and which has scrupulously respected and defended human rights for many years . 
Madam President , I want to express my concern that this clear defence by Mr Knörr Borràs of human rights apparently does not prevent his government from cooperating in Parliament with a political group which not only does not condemn , but collaborates with and encourages , violence against people and property . 
I see that Mr Gorostiaga Atxalandabaso is asking to take the floor on the same subject . 
We are not going to enter into a debate now . 
I shall give you the floor for any points of order after the vote . 
Report ( A5 - 0029 / 2000 ) by Mr Brok , on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs , Human Rights , Common Security and Defence Policy , on the proposal for a Council regulation on the implementation of operations in the framework of the pre - accession strategy for Cyprus and Malta ( COM ( 1999 ) 535 - C5 - 0308 / 1999 - 1999 / 0199 ( CNS ) ) 
Relating to Amendments Nos 22 and 24
Madam President , I want to condemn the absence of the Presidency - in - Office of the Council . 
On Third Pillar matters such as these conventions which are so important for the construction of an area of freedom , security and justice , it is unacceptable for the Presidency - in - Office of the Council to be absent . 
I also want to mention the translation problems , of which I will give just one example , as we do not have much time . 
Correct translation is vital in this subject as it involves very precise legal concepts . 
Amendment No 83 in Italian , which is the original version , states that ' il minore deve essere assistito da una persona di sua fiducia o da un perito o legale esterno '  . 
The term ' legale esterno ' has been translated into French as ' avocat neutre '  . I have no idea what an ' avocat neutre ' is . 
It rather seems like a contradiction in terms . 
However , in the Spanish version the ' abogado ' has disappeared completely . 
Madam President , you have said several times that this is a very serious problem . 
The lawyer - linguists should work very carefully to ensure that a reasonable version is produced . 
Quite , Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi , this is not the first time and it is indeed most worrying . 
We shall address this problem and check all the translations . 
Madam President , I simply wanted to add my voice to that of Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi before the vote started , to say that I regret very much the absence of the Council from this debate on such important votes on matters of the Third Pillar . 
I should like you , Madam President , to express to the Council our wish that they be present at such votes in future . 
Quite , I am well aware that their absence is highly irregular and I shall be most happy to pass this on . 
Relating to Amendment No 31
Madam President , in the phrase which reads ' Where consent to the transfer is required from the person concerned '  , the words ' under the national law of the requesting or requested Member State ' should be added after ' Where '  . 
 ( Parliament adopted the legislative resolution ) 
