Madam President , in the heat of the moment I forgot to mention that , in my report on the excessive deficit procedure , the last paragraph of the explanatory statement contains a mistake in the Spanish version . An ' s ' has been omitted and instead of reading ' la propuesta nos parece correcta '  , it reads ' la propuesta no parece correcta ' which is completely the contrary . 
I just wanted to correct this . 
Proposal for a resolution ( B5 - 0132 / 2000 ) by Mrs Bonino and others , on behalf of the TDI Group , on the Commission communication on the strategic objectives for the next five years
 ( Parliament rejected the proposal for a resolution ) 
Proposal for a resolution ( B5 - 0136 / 2000 ) by Mr Queiro , Mrs Muscardini and Mr Berthu , on behalf of the UEN Group , on the Commission ' s strategic objectives for 2000 - 2005
 ( Parliament rejected the proposal for a resolution ) 
Proposal for a resolution ( B5 - 0142 / 2000 ) by Messrs Mrs Hautala , Mr Lannoye and Mrs Maes , on behalf of the Verts / ALE Group , on the strategic objectives for 2000 - 2005
 ( Parliament rejected the proposal for a resolution ) 
Proposal for a joint resolution on the Commission ' s 5 year Strategic Programme
 ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
Proposal for a joint resolution on coherence of different Union policies
 ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
Proposal for a resolution ( B5 - 0125 / 2000 ) by Mr Dupuis and others , on behalf of the TDI Group , on the UN Commission on human rights
 ( Parliament rejected the proposal for a resolution ) 
Madam President , I did not want to disturb you a minute ago during the vote . 
But I did notice a drop in alertness and when we debated the amendments of our Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , you mentioned the Greens on their own in every instance . 
We are a group of unity in diversity . We want to bring this across in Parliament . 
I would ask you to use the full name of our Group . 
Very well , I shall do so . 
Proposal for a joint resolution on human rights
 ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
Report ( A5 - 0032 / 2000 ) by Mr Corrie , on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation , on the results of the work of the ACP - EU Joint Assembly in 1999
 ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
Report ( A5 - 0031 / 2000 ) by Mr Swoboda , on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs , Human Rights , Common Security and Defence Policy , on the Commission recommendation on a Council decision authorising the Commission to negotiate a stabilisation and association agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia ( SEC ( 1999 ) 1279 - C5 - 0166 / 1999 - 1999 / 2121 ( COS ) ) 
Relating to Amendment No 6
 .  ( DE ) Madam President , I have an oral amendment which is in fact a clarification , because the passage concerned has been formulated differently in various translations . 
I hope the person who tabled the amendment will agree to this . 
The second sentence should read :  ' . . , weshalb diese Hilfen '  ( which is why we have this aid ) , then ' ohne Bedingungen und '  ( unconditionally and ) should be deleted , and it continues as follows :  ' ohne Abhängigkeit von reziproken Anweisungen von seiten des Geberlandes gewährt werden müssen '  .  ( and therefore that the aid must not be dependent on the reciprocal orders from the donor countries ) . 
This clarification would certainly meet with our approval . 
Are there any objections to the inclusion of this oral amendment ? 
 ( Parliament agreed to the oral amendment )  - Relating to Amendment No 9
I just wanted to make it clear - as it has been translated differently here - that we always use the official name FYROM . 
Madam President , I would like , with reference to this report , to underline the problem of translation : reference should be made to the French or Italian version , since the text adopted by this Parliament will also be the authoritative one for the Commission . 
We have encountered several problems in some of the other languages , but have not been able to check all of these , and I would thus urge you to be mindful of problems of this type . 
Madam President , I voted in favour of the Schmidt report on the regulation of investments in transferable securities because , as I stated in this Chamber this morning , I consider it very important that the monies of the citizens of the European Union be put to good use . The vast majority of these citizens are elderly people and pensioners , who want a peaceful retirement and who , after the problems encountered during the course of their working lives , have at last found financial peace of mind . 
The regulation of investments in transferable securities , the vast majority of which are made by elderly pensioners , is thus a major step forward for the European Union . 
Report by Olle Schmidt ( A5 - 0025 / 2000 ) 
 .  ( SV ) Olle Schmidt ' s report is an improvement on the Commission ' s proposal . 
I am not opposed to updating the common minimum regulations enabling a collective investment undertaking to obtain a so - called EU passport . However , I do not consider it would be appropriate to do this before all Member States have approved Commissioner Monti ' s proposal for minimum taxes on capital . 
In its present form , the report will contribute to further liberalisation of the capital markets , in spite of the fact that what is most important is to restrain them . 
Like the whole of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , I have therefore voted against the proposal to amend Directive No 1 and have abstained from voting on the proposal to amend Directive No 2 . 
Brok report ( A5 - 0029 / 2000 ) 
Madam President , there has recently been much talk of the importance of enlarging the European Union . 
We have before us Malta and Cyprus , which are two States keen to become members . 
Given that the complexity of the procedures has been greatly reduced , I voted in favour not only because this measure addresses the need for cohesion between these applicant States and the Union , but also because I believe that this should be taken as an invitation from Parliament to the Council and the Commission to ensure that Cyprus and Malta become fully - fledged members of the European Union as swiftly as possible . 
 .  ( FR ) It is with great satisfaction that I welcome this report on the pre - accession strategy for Cyprus and Malta , whose accession is vital to the future of the European Union in the Mediterranean . 
The aim of this proposal for a regulation is to set up the first programme to implement the strategy for Cyprus and Malta , starting in the year 2000 and lasting for five years ( 2000 - 2004 ) . 
The proposal therefore aims to facilitate harmonisation of their legislation with the acquis communautaire and the correct application of the acquis communautaire . 
This new move follows on from the step taken at the Helsinki European Council last December , when it was decided that Malta had made sufficient progress to warrant opening bilateral conferences in February 2000 , i . e . by the end of this month , in order to commence negotiations on the conditions of accession to the Union and the adjustments required . 
As far as Cyprus is concerned , although the Council stated that a political settlement would facilitate the accession of Cyprus to the European Union . It also stated that its decision on accession would be made without the above being a precondition , which I welcome . 
I have , in fact , always thought that insisting on a settlement of the present situation , in which one - third of this republic ' s territory is occupied by Turkey , before starting negotiations with Cyprus was quite unfair . 
On a more general note , it is true that the socio - economic situation in these two countries is far better than in other candidate countries . 
However , they have received technical assistance and financial aid from the European Union in order to transpose the acquis communautaire . 
Until 1999 , this technical assistance and financial aid was provided under the fourth financial protocols ( B7 - 4011 ) . 
Both countries also qualify for financial aid under the MEDA programme ( B7 - 4012 ) . 
During the first and second readings of the 2000 budget , the European Parliament stressed that the new ' pre - accession ' heading ( B7 - 0 ) , proposed by the Commission in the preliminary draft budget , should not be limited to the candidate countries of Central and Eastern Europe and should also be extended to Malta and Cyprus . 
However , because of the Council ' s refusal to negotiate a review of the ceiling set for heading 7 ( pre - accession ) in the Financial Perspectives , the European Parliament agreed , by way of exception , and I stress that it was by way of exception , that this expenditure should be financed under heading 4 ( external action ) of the Financial Perspectives for the year 2000 . 
