At the same time , the European Parliament created a new heading :  ' pre - accession strategy for Mediterranean countries '  ( B7 - 04 ) , under which two new articles were created for the pre - accession strategy for Malta and Cyprus pending the Commission ' s presentation , following the Helsinki European Council , of the necessary legal bases and a review of the ceiling for heading 7 of the Financial Perspectives . 
This proposal for a regulation is supposed to be one of these legal bases ! 
 . I welcome Mr Brok ' s report supporting with amendments the Commission ' s proposals seeking to prepare Cyprus and Malta for EU membership . 
The package will grant around Euro 15 million in total for the two countries in the current year . 
It is , however , regrettable that the Commission has eschewed multiannual financing and decided instead to allocate funds on a yearly basis . 
This is bound to have an impact on the ability of Malta and Cyprus to plan spending . 
The funding will provide technical and financial support to enable the two islands to meet the requirements of the Community ' acquis '  . 
Given the already advanced state of these two countries , compared to other applicants , this should easily allow them to be ' technically and administratively ' ready for membership at the end of the 5 - year programme . 
Cederschiöld report ( A5 - 0020 / 2000 ) 
 .  ( FR ) As a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs during the last parliamentary term , I welcome the adoption of this framework decision on increasing protection for our single currency . 
The Union should use every means at its disposal to guard against counterfeiting . 
Consumers and traders are still not familiar with the euro and it would be easy for counterfeit money to be passed in supermarkets , bureaux de change and banks and not be noticed straight away . 
And the fact that coins are to have a national design on one side will make them even harder to identify . 
The European information centres , which are already playing a vital role in raising public awareness of the single currency , should step up their campaigns to raise public awareness of counterfeiting . 
On another level , we must ensure that Community and national institutions cooperate and implement an information system to collect and exchange information on counterfeiting . 
As far as criminal sanctions are concerned , measures are needed to guarantee protection for the euro from the outset and this is the purpose of the draft framework decision on increasing protection by criminal sanctions against counterfeiting presented by the European Parliament . 
The purpose of the framework decision is to supplement the provisions of the International Convention for the Suppression of Counterfeiting Currency of 20 April 1929 and to facilitate its application by the Member States . 
Each Member State must take the necessary measures to ensure that the offences set out in the framework decision are punishable . 
These offences must be punishable even if they relate to banknotes and coins denominated in euros but not yet issued and if they are committed before 1 January 2002 . 
This is a basic element of the decision . 
I cannot but support the rapporteur in deploring the fact that the present national currencies from which the euro is to take over are not protected . 
We must bear in mind that national currencies could continue to change hands for another 20 years ! 
They should therefore be protected by criminal sanctions against counterfeiting once they have been withdrawn from circulation . 
It would also appear to be in the Union ' s interest for all Member States to help protect the euro , especially Sweden , Denmark , the United Kingdom and Greece , which will not be introducing the euro on 1 January 2002 . 
Although this framework decision is a step in the right direction , it confines itself to increasing criminal sanctions by harmonising substantive criminal law in the form of minimum standards . 
There is still no uniform criminal legislation on counterfeiting and there are 15 different national systems . 
That brings us back to the more general need to approximate criminal law called for by the European Council in Tampere . 
 . 
 ( DA ) Mrs Cederschiöld ' s report reflects an extremely peculiar form of logic . The EU introduces a common currency . 
The risk of counterfeiting increases . Counterfeiting of the euro is perceived as an offence against the entire EU ; the punishment must therefore be the same in each Member State . 
The harmonisation of criminal law or the introduction of minimum legal standards should not be legitimised against the background of problems of one ' s own creation but from considerations of reason and necessity . 
There is nothing to indicate that the Member States ' legal principles , legal traditions and carefully tailored legal systems should be lost for reasons to do with an already familiar offence such as counterfeiting . Nor , in the light of the international convention of 20 April 1929 , can there be any confusion as to which country should deal with any criminal cases . 
We are therefore voting against the report and strongly urge the abandonment of the idea of harmonising criminal law on such flimsy grounds . Instead , the focus should be upon preventing the real problem . 
 . I welcome this proposal to protect the Euro against forgers . 
When the notes and coins come into circulation after 1 January 2002 , everything possible must be done to ensure maximum confidence in the Euro . 
Di Pietro report ( A5 - 0019 / 2000 ) 
Madam President , as the representative of the Pensioners ' Party , there have been many occasions on which I have stated , at the committee stage , that the European Union must intervene in regulating the lives of the elderly , and in the measures and rules on pensions , as is already the case , in coordination . 
Similarly , as concerns the field of justice and criminal law , which we have discussed today , I believe not only that the different criminal law , juridical and administrative legislative systems should be coordinated , but also that we must at last formulate common standards : an offence committed in Italy must also be viewed as an offence in Great Britain , Spain or elsewhere . 
I believe that we , the Parliament of the European Union , who are the elected representatives of the citizens , must give sharper impetus to ensuring that the European Union provides for the regulation of every facet of the lives of its citizens , including that of justice , and that of pensions . 
 . Commissioner Prodi pointed out that ' Africa is our responsibility ' and not apparently that of the USA and other major countries . 
I worked in Africa 30 years ago , and it was poor and underdeveloped but the problems are now more catastrophic . 
Two million people died of AIDS in Africa last year , approximately 200 000 died in wars . 
In Zambia 25 % of teachers have died of AIDS . 
In some countries children had a better chance of basic education and health care twenty years ago than they have today . 
Our policies in Africa lack coherence . 
There is huge duplication of effort . 
Furthermore , the cloud of debt remains an obstacle to real development . 
It is patently clear that Africa has become the forgotten continent . 
 .  ( FR ) In its communication on its strategic objectives for 2000 - 2005 , the Commission repeats that Europe needs to become a ' global actor ' capable of speaking with a strong voice in the world . 
What should this global actor ' s objective be ? 
Doubtless our citizens would say something along the lines of ' to defend the countries of Europe better '  , since that is the traditional and primordial purpose of political associations . 
And yet this phrase is nowhere to be seen . 
All we find are vague phrases about ' strategic partnerships ' and the new prospects for trade which the complete integration of Europe would apparently bring with it . 
The omission of this principal objective is highly revealing . 
It demonstrates one of the main flaws in the European Union , a little - known , almost always implicit flaw , but one which goes a long way towards explaining our citizens ' loss of interest . 
There is a highly revealing passage on this point in the work programme for the year 2000 attached to the strategic guidelines . 
Addressing the fundamental question of relations with the United States , the Commission mentions just one priority :  ' we will endeavour to reduce and eliminate as far as possible the disputes in transatlantic trade '  ( page 4 ) . 
While we are on the subject , where one would expect a firm declaration of intent to defend European interests in the numerous trade conflicts under way , one merely finds the desire to eliminate conflict , which hardly sounds like determination on the part of the Commission to fight its corner . 
How strange that the Commission should lose its instinct for self - preservation just as Europe is integrating . I think there are three reasons for this : 1 ) in their endeavour to transcend the nation states , the European institutions have lost touch with the people and , in losing touch with the people , they have become putty in the hands of foreign interests ; 2 ) having lost touch with the people , the men and women working in these institutions have started to become used to reasoning not as the sole champions of the people , but as international officials in charge of regulating a global system ; 3 ) integration may afford economies of scale and productivity gains ; but it also causes far more to be lost because , when it breaks nations , it breaks subtle expressions of solidarity and , with them , the willingness to present a united front . 
 .  ( FR ) I share the overriding sense of deep and keen dissatisfaction expressed during the debate . 
I do , of course , understand the constraints of the moment and I am prepared to entertain the idea of the risk of failure . . . . 
However , experience has taught me that , in politics , modest ambitions are never the key to success ! 
I shall not keep saying that I am disappointed , because you need to hope in order to be disappointed . . . . and I have had no hope since the investiture debate . 
As for the future , given that the Commission has shown itself incapable of taking action against fascism in Austria , I am convinced that blocking measures to liberalise the single market is the only way of administering a salutary electric shock treatment to the heart of all the countries in the Union . 
 -  ( IT ) On behalf of the Italian Communists , I would like to express great dissatisfaction at the contents of the document , which was expected to define the strategic guidelines for Europe up until the year 2005 . 
Employment : for many years now , the connection between economic growth and an increase in employment has not been borne out by reality , and yet , despite the fact that it has been proved to be useless , the same recipe is being put forward again as a solution to the acute problem of unemployment . 
And yet our President is a fine economist . 
Pensions : The document states that ,  ' Member States must remain responsible for modernising social protection systems '  , and yet the Commission itself intervened in the case of Italy , repeatedly calling for swift changes to the pension system to reduce rights and decrease pension payments . 
And yet President Prodi himself gave firm guidance to the Italian Government during those years and is therefore aware of the nature and extent of the sacrifices demanded of our fellow citizens and which they made in order to sign up to the euro , and he is aware of the major role played by Italy in European development . 
For this very reason , we cannot agree to cut pensions further . 
There is an agreement on this issue which provides for a review in 2001 and this must not take place one moment sooner . 
What is more , the relevant cost dynamic is completely under control . 
I would therefore ask the Commission to please refrain from taking this unacceptable ideological approach and making such declarations which create instability and uncertainty among the citizens . 
I referred to the case of Italy , not only because the President is very familiar with it , but because Community statistics ( Eurostat ) themselves reveal that not only has Italy ' s welfare expenditure - currently 25 . 9 %  - been below the Community average ( 28 . 2 % ) since 1990 , but that it has also been well below that of countries considered to be doing well , such as Germany ( 29 . 9 % ) and France ( 30 . 8 % ) . 
Europe ' s role : we first need to emphasise that Europe rejects war as an instrument for resolving international conflict : only then can we talk of the ' military ' role of the Union . 
Agriculture and health : we see the issue differently from the Commission : in our view there are no consumers : there are only citizens who want to eat healthy food - products which are not designed for competitiveness but health , quality and respect for the environment . 
Moreover , these are factors which create employment . 
 .  ( FR ) The proposed action and programme presented by Mr Prodi are vague in the extreme and the social question is missing yet again . 
In fact , the word seems to have been banished from the Commission ' s vocabulary , whereas liberal and American references abound . 
Mr Prodi reverts to the contested concept of ' governance '  ; contested because it favours state intervention over a proper working democracy and refers to the notion as defined by the IMF , whose ideological agenda is predicated solely on liberalism and monetarism . 
The shift in meaning is not just semantic . . . 
The only logical thing to do on reading this document is to pursue the mass market and generalised deregulation and forget about the realignment of European policy which our citizens hoped for . 
Mr Prodi talks solely of ' mechanisms ' and ' structures ' and fails to set out a single balanced project which responds to the aspirations of our people . 
Enlargement appears to be an end in itself , but unless decisions are made on a social policy , a common value and an institution to strengthen the cohesion and democratisation of the Union , the Europe bequeathed to us at the end of Mr Prodi ' s presidency may well be a simple common market area within the context of generalised globalisation , rather than the community of destiny which we hope for . 
Finally , Mr Prodi ' s complacency towards the Austrian Government in the name of an exaggerated sense of protocol ( which in no way obliges him to send a message of congratulations ) would in itself warrant a vote of no confidence . 
 .  ( FR ) The European Union is flaunting its unbridled expansionist ambitions . 
The Commission ' s objective for the next five years is to become a ' global actor ' by showing ' genuine leadership on the world stage '  . 
The nature of the EU has not changed . 
Since the beginning it has served the interests of a few dozen large financial and industrial groups and their pressure groups . 
But the Prodi Commission now wants to transform the EU so that it can apply for joint global governance with the United States , which it also sees as its future competitor and rival . 
This new imperial policy advocates reorganising European and national institutions , strengthening the power of the state , increasing competition , establishing a European army and redistributing financial resources . 
Even daring to refer to the defence of a ' European social model ' is a shamefaced lie because the more the EU combats the United States , the more it becomes its clone . 
We shall vote against these objectives , because we are fighting against this policy both in Parliament and on the streets . 
A European charter of fundamental rights would be the only ray of light in this policy but , yet again , there is no provision for the people of Europe themselves to be able to address and decide on this democratically . 
We abstained from the vote on the motion for a resolution for the following reasons . 
Firstly , the motion does not condemn clearly enough the vagueness of the priorities and commitments indicated in the Commission ' s programme . 
Secondly , in terms of the definition of priorities for the next five years , we consider that the main question to be considered by the Commission is its role in interinstitutional relations within the EU which neither the programme nor the motion mention . 
In our opinion , the Commission ' s role in the near future will be dependent on some of the European political initiative being returned by the governments of the Member States following the Santer Commission scandal . 
This is very positive as this is how the national parliaments , on which the governments depend , will continue to show that their democratic mandate is indispensable to European construction . 
The truth is that the European Parliament is still failing to gain the confidence and interest of national public opinion which is determined not to think about Europe , as demonstrated by the low turnout in the recent elections . 
The mechanisms used in the cooperation between the governments of the Member States must therefore be reinforced and made more coherent , more transparent and more democratic . 
We welcome the efforts of Mr Prodi to improve the public image of the Commission and the need for the latter to agree with this House and the Council . 
However , the priority should be to reform the governmental cooperation mechanisms , particularly by creating a Council of Ministers for Europe which , by itself and in coordination with the other European institutions , can assume the responsibility for transforming the political decisions of the European Councils into specific actions . 
Corrie report ( A5 - 0032 / 2000 ) 
Madam President , the work of the ACP - EU Joint Assembly was coloured in 1999 by growing concern about the sustainability of the cooperation models derived from the Lomé Conventions . 
Back in 1994 , the Joint Assembly passed an initial resolution , in which our fellow Member Dominique Souchet was closely involved , expressing its alarm at the foreseeable consequences of the Uruguay Round , which contradicted the very principle of Community preference which was fundamental to this cooperation . 
These fears have been taking shape over the last two years and the banana row is the clearest expression of them . 
The developing countries are asked to fall into line with the liberalisation of trade , despite their vulnerable economies . 
Although Mr Corrie ' s report roundly condemns this situation and reaffirms the Joint Assembly ' s attachment to the Lomé model , he fails to highlight properly a second problem which , to tell the truth , is also the result of the free - trade error , namely the incoherence of the regional trade agreements signed by the European Union . 
The cooperation agreement with South Africa is a prime example . 
The Council approved the agreement negotiated by the Commission despite the fact that a basic section , namely agriculture , had not been finalised . 
As Paul - Marie Coûteaux rightly said in his intervention yesterday and in his proposed amendments , one wonders exactly what political coherence this blank cheque represents . 
It is most worrying , especially as a similar agreement with Mexico appears to be taking shape . 
Nor is it possible to support the rapporteur ' s call for the European Development Fund to be merged with the Community budget . 
We want to maintain the clear commitment and the responsibility of each Member State , which is made possible by its intergovernmental nature . 
Alas , there have been far too many instances of collective aid for which no - one feels responsible being derailed and we do not want to extend this disastrous system to the EDF . 
Madam President , I welcome Mr Corrie ' s report as a balanced assessment of the work the Assembly has carried out over the last year . 
The report comes just after agreement has been reached on the renewal of the existing Lomé Convention , which expires at the end of this month . 
The new agreement provides for a development budget of EUR 13 . 5 billion over the next seven years . 
It is vital that this money is used to benefit the poorest groups and individuals within the ACP countries . 
Strenuous efforts must be made to root out corruption and waste . 
Civil society must be involved in the planning and implementation of these projects . 
The decision to include a clause obliging ACP countries to take back illegal immigrants entering Europe is worrying and will have to be implemented with extreme sensitivity . 
I hope that before the end of this new Lomé Convention we will be able to welcome Cuba as a full member . 
 . The joint United Nations programme on AIDS estimated that by the end of 1998 , there was a total of 33 . 4 million people in the world living with the HIV infection . 
Over 95 % of all HIV infected individuals live in the developing countries and sub - Saharan Africa is the worst affected region in the world . 
While only around 10 % of the world ' s population live in sub - Saharan Africa , 70 % of all people who became infected with the AIDS virus in 1998 live there . 
80 % of the 13 . 9 million AIDS related deaths in the world have taken place in this region . 
The AIDS problem in Africa is not only a private or public health issue but a development one . 
The effects of the AIDS pandemic mean that any progress in development matters in the sub - Saharan region is being neutralised or reversed . 
From the data which I am referring to today , it is evident that this disease is taking a disproportionate toll on the developing countries least capable of responding to its wide - ranging impact . 
It is clear that the spread of AIDS in the sub - Saharan African Continent is linked to poverty . 
AIDS treatments that may cost $ 18 000 per annum for one person are obviously not affordable by countries whose annual health budget may be less than $ 5 per capita . 
It is incumbent on the European Union and the United Nations to address what is a social and fatal problem in a comprehensive and strategic manner . 
We must primarily ensure that the basic needs of the poorest people in the countries most affected by the AIDS disease are fully met . 
These countries include Ethiopia , Lesotho , Mozambique , Tanzania , Uganda and Zambia . 
Prevention education should begin early in the primary school curriculum in these countries . 
Appropriate messages about the health effects of AIDS must be delivered to primary school children by teachers who are comfortable with the information that they are trying to communicate . 
Health facilities and staff of NGOs need to be supported and resourced to deal effectively and appropriately with patients . 
It is essential that these groups are able to obtain the limited resources they require to be effective . 
At a more central level , there is a need for more effective co - ordination between government donors , international NGOs , indigenous NGOs and private sector initiatives so that scarce resources are not wasted . 
Already weak economies are being further weakened in Africa by the AIDS virus . 
Already stretched resources are being further stretched . 
50 % or more of hospital beds are now occupied by someone suffering with an AIDS related disease in the countries where AIDS figures are highest . 
On a separate matter altogether , I would like to support Cuba ' s membership as an ACP country within the framework of the new Lomé Convention which will shortly be agreed between the European Union and African , Caribbean and Pacific countries . 
I know that this is somewhat controversial , particularly , because of the attitude of the United States Government towards the Castro regime . 
However , on this occasion , the European Union will be insisting on introducing political criteria into the Lomé Convention Accord . 
Good governance criteria broadly covering questions of refugees , corruption , human rights and democracy will be part of the finalised accord between the European Union and all countries signing the Lomé Convention from Africa , the Caribbean and the Pacific region . 
 .  ( FR ) The Lomé Convention , on which the entire structure of relations between the European Union and the 71 African , Caribbean and Pacific countries rests , is still the most efficient and ambitious development tool in north - south relations . 
After years of ' good and loyal service ' it is still the main symbol of efforts by the European Union to promote development and improve the lot of the poorest countries . 
It is the humane face of Europe . . . 
And the merit of Mr Corrie ' s report is that it highlights the value of this original , proactive development instrument , together with the work carried out by the Joint Assembly . 
Especially as the vulnerable architecture of this ambitious structure has been threatened . 
The partnership between the European Union and the ACP was negotiated in the difficult time of the changeover to the new millennium . 
I am delighted that reason and generosity triumphed over the difficulties , opening new prospects for this partnership . 
Now , more than 30 years after the inauguration of an unprecedented partnership between north and south , the tool which has proven its worth and served its time needs to be adapted in order to meet new challenges . 
Which is why the new 20 - year agreement due to be signed in Fiji on 31 May represents more than the simple renewal of the Conventions regulating relations between Europe and the ACP . 
It should seal their revival . 
It brilliantly illustrates the political dimension of a partnership which constitutes the only forum for dialogue and political exchange within north - south relations . 
At a time when the Joint Assembly is opening its doors ever wider to the elected representatives from parliaments in the ACP , this dimension must not only be preserved ; above all , it must be encouraged . 
The Joint Assembly also represents the tribunal before which the countries of Europe and the developing countries defend their common interests . 
After the debacle in Seattle , our duty from now on is to adopt a concerted position and ensure that the rules of world trade develop and are used to fight poverty . 
The partnership is here to stay and the way is clear for it to be modernised . 
First , by promoting a trend towards regional meetings of the Joint Assembly , as recommended in the Corrie report , thereby enabling working methods to be adapted to the new types of cooperation envisaged ( regional economic partnership agreements ) . 
Then , by gearing actions to micro - projects and making them accessible to the civil society in the southern countries and , finally , by calling for enlargement and the rapid accession of Cuba , which all the ACP called for at Nassau and which has now made a formal application . 
But we must also preserve the original spirit of the Lomé Convention , which has enabled relations between the European Union and the ACP to become what they are today : a real partnership based on fairness and mutual respect . 
 .  ( FR ) A few days after the demonstrations in Seattle , the ministers of the European Union imposed an agreement compatible with the rules of the WTO on the ACP , i . e . their former colonies . 
Apart from reducing the volume of exports from these countries to the Community market , what we term ' development aid ' to the ACP has fallen constantly , from 70 % of total European Union aid in 1986 to 30 % in 1998 . 
The European Union prefers to send its funds to Eastern Europe , the former USSR and Asia , where there is greater opportunity for profit . 
The ACP - EU agreements make a mockery of democratic principles and the fight against corruption , by sparing those who are responsible : when will sanctions and controls be imposed on Total - Elf , which is supplying those responsible for the civil war in the Congo ? 
Or on Shell ? 
Although the market is presented as the only rule which applies to ACP - EU relations , the European Union also plans to police immigration , as article 13 hints , in order to justify the policy of the European states against illegal immigrants . 
We do not accept this agreement , which deprives people of the wherewithal to build societies which are independent of the European multinationals and banks . 
 . 
Mr President , I am full of praise at the sterling efforts of MEPs - - some of my Labour colleagues among them - on the ACP - EU Joint Assembly and their efforts towards securing a new Lomé Agreement , which will benefit some of the poorest countries in the world . 
Few of my constituents will probably be aware that the EU is the biggest foreign aid donor in the world . 
While others may have the biggest rockets , the EU has the deepest pockets . 
This is something that the EU can rightly be proud of , and I think we should shout it from the rooftops more often . 
The Labour Government ' s record in Britain is also a proud one . 
Clare Short , MP , is one of the few Cabinet - level Ministers for international development in the world and , as such , can take her case to the very heart of government . 
Gordon Brown , MP , meanwhile , has led international efforts to relieve crippling levels of Third World debt and ensured that Labour ' s campaign to reduce poverty does not end at the English Channel . 
Whether through the minimum wage in Manchester or debt relief in Durban , Labour ' s aim of poverty reduction remains the same . 
There is still much to be done , however . 
The next great challenge is to re - launch the new round of world trade negotiations that failed to take off last December in Seattle . 
It must be a ' development round '  , in which developing countries , effectively excluded from previous rounds , are fully included . 
For the best way to reduce world poverty is to help developing countries help themselves . 
Developing countries want trade not aid , a help up not a hand - out . 
And the best way to help developing countries help themselves is to open up world markets to allow them to sell their products . 
In this way , the power of globalisation can be harnessed for the good , to benefit the poor not just the wealthy , the many not just the few . 
Thus , whether through the New Deal in Newcastle or fair trade in Freetown , Labour ' s aim of opportunity for all remains the same . 
Swoboda report ( A5 - 0031 / 2000 ) 
 .  ( EL ) The EU ' s Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia , in the form of a joint agreement as established by Article 310 of the EU Treaty , can contribute to the stabilisation and development of that Balkan republic . 
In parallel , it can benefit from substantial financial support via the PHARE programme . 
However , the EU ' s present policy in the Balkans is fragmentary , inconsistent and schizophrenic in nature . 
There are different types of agreements or relations or lack of relations - going even as far as the embargo on Yugoslavia - which result in a fragmented and ineffectual approach . 
There is no sense of regionality for the Balkans , which would include everyone without exceptions or vindictiveness . 
Finally , intervention by the European Union to solve the problem of FYROM ' s name - which is unfortunately becoming a long drawn out problem and could make an already tense situation even more fraught - and to respond more energetically towards negotiating FYROM ' s principles within a reasonable time scale , is necessary and useful . 
 .  ( FR ) The Commission ' s stated desire to strengthen relations between the European Union and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and to grant this country the prospect of full integration into the Community would appear to respond to a primary concern : a political entity which respects nations and their sovereignty could no longer postpone sending a signal to these states in south - east Europe which history has shown no consideration for since the end of the Second World War . 
Having been crushed beneath the heel of triumphant Communism , this region has not stopped paying the price for the collapse of the Soviet system since the beginning of the 1990s . 
And yet , under these difficult conditions , especially since the military intervention in the Balkans by NATO , some of these genuinely European countries have demonstrated a sense of responsibility which entitles them to aspire to join the Community . 
In this sense , the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is both an exemplary and a symbolic case . 
Exemplary because it proves that the Balkan countries are not at the mercy of fate and that those of them which so wish are already in a position to meet the standard requirements imposed by the European Union in stability and association agreements . 
Symbolic because it reflects well on the Fifteen ' s project to see the birth of a policy which is common to the five countries in the region ( Bosnia - Herzegovina , Croatia , Federal Republic of Yugoslavia , FYROM and Albania ) and which would make economic and political stability a pressing and urgent requirement . 
The UEN Group is all the more in favour of sending this signal to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia because it leaves plenty of room for the independence and sovereignty of the states . A satisfactory solution cannot be found in the Balkans without a strong policy of cooperation between the states concerned ; but nor can there be any question of blocking their process of integration because one of them is considered unworthy of such promotion . 
The Union is simply doing its job when it seeks through its cooperation policy to encourage nations to espouse a platform of common values with it , of which democracy and civil liberty are the cornerstone . 
It is not its job to subrogate to people in their choices or , failing that , reinvent a new variation on a ' sense of history ' which perceives self - determination as a one - way street . 
The Community construction only makes sense if it creates positive discriminations alone , and the UEN Group hopes that this signal to FYROM and specific action in its wake will help us make a sustainable contribution to the development and peaceful coexistence of the nation states in this fully - paid up part of Europe . 
Frassoni Report ( A5 - 0021 / 2000 ) 
 .  ( DA ) The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted in favour of Mrs Monica Frassoni ' s report , according to which the European Parliament is to accept the agreement entered into with the Commission about the implementing provisions for the Council ' s decision of 28 June 1999 concerning comitology . 
In all matters , we attach importance to the fact that there should be the greatest possible transparency in connection with the decision - making procedures involved in EU cooperation , for example with a view to guaranteeing the necessary democratic control . 
Through the agreement , the European Parliament will automatically be sent the relevant material in connection with decisions made in accordance with the rules under Article 251 of the Treaty . 
We should also like to see this arrangement extended to other areas in which , following the agreement , the European Parliament ' s relevant committees will be sent material when they ask for it . 
With the approval of this agreement , we have not achieved the final goal of transparency and democratic control where the comitology procedures are concerned . 
However , it constitutes real progress in the right direction , which is something we do not wish to obstruct . 
 ( The sitting was suspended at 1 . 23 p . m . and resumed at 3 p . m . ) 
Company restructuring in Europe
The next item is the Commission statement - Company restructuring in Europe . 
 . 
Mr President , industrial change , which can be gradual or sudden , is driven by new technologies , worldwide competition or consumer preferences . 
It has economic implications and an impact on employment and social cohesion , but it also provides major new opportunities when anticipated , prepared for and managed . 
The acceleration of technological progress and the increasing competitive pressure of globalising markets are pushing companies to rapidly adapt their production and company structures . 
Companies must be able to anticipate and identify at an early stage what they need to do to ensure the continuity of their activities . 
Sometimes this calls for mergers of activities . 
The Commission is acutely aware of this situation and of the need for people to feel basic security in difficult times of change . 
We are convinced that the cornerstone of successful adaptation to change is dialogue at all levels and with full and transparent information as its basis . 
We have had in the recent past different experiences and approaches on how to deal with large - scale operations of corporate restructuring , often affecting the lives of large numbers of European people . In some cases these operations were prepared well in advance , fully involving workers ' representatives , with due care being taken to search for the least damaging solutions . 
Where necessary , workers likely to be affected were prepared through employability measures to face the challenge of sudden unemployment . 
In other cases these operations were launched and implemented with less care and concern for those affected . 
On every occasion , and as recently as last October in this House , the Commission has highlighted the following basic positions . 
Firstly , decisions on corporate restructuring remain the prerogative as well as the responsibility of management . 
This means that , when contemplating actions likely to lead to serious social consequences , job losses for example , companies should always actively search for and choose the least negative and least damaging solution . 
Secondly , when dismissals prove to be inevitable , the utmost must be done to reinforce the employability of those concerned . 
This requires anticipation , timely preparation and careful management of these processes . 
Thirdly , nothing can justify the absence of timely , effective and comprehensive information and consultation of the workers ' and employees ' representatives before such operations are launched or publicly announced . 
Worker involvement is always , and particularly in the event of corporate restructuring , not only a basic right but a necessary precondition for the social acceptance of such operations . 
In the end it is also a decisive factor of their success , as no collectivity can survive and prosper without trust , dialogue , partnership and solidarity between its different components . 
These basic ideas meet with a wide consensus in Europe . 
This is what intelligent restructuring is about . 
It is more and more rare to see companies embark on damaging restructuring operations ignoring these fundamental concerns , as unfortunately was sometimes the case in the past . 
We have built a wide range of instruments which meet these concerns in recent years in the European Union . 
We have set minimum requirements at European level , which all Member States and all companies must observe when contemplating job losses , especially when they are massive , or preparing other decisions likely to affect workers . 
The collective redundancies and transfers of undertakings directive and the European works council directive constitute our legal framework , protecting the workers ' rights and ensuring fair standards in the field of information and consultation at national and transnational level respectively . 
As regards the national and / or local level of employee involvement , the Commission wishes to underline again the need for proper information and consultation of employees ' representatives before any redundancies are decided or implemented , as provided for in the collective redundancies directive and in other national provisions . 
I wish to recall that it is , in principle , up to national courts to deal with possible violations of these rules , if and when they are brought before them by national representatives . 
However , even when existing rules or arrangements are formally respected this does not mean that management ' s attitude is socially irreprehensible . 
In fact , the Commission has argued for some time now that the rules we have established are not sufficient to deal with the challenges of today . 
In a world characterised by permanent change and in the context of high levels of unemployment , the rules in force seem to us to be outdated as they do not allow or promote the key ideas behind our employment strategy and our approach to change , anticipation , risk prevention and employability . 
That is why in November 1998 the Commission presented a proposal for a directive on worker information and consultation which has since then received your strong support . 
We thank you for that . 
Unfortunately , the other branch of the legislative power , the Council , has not yet - more than one year after the presentation of the proposal - begun working on it . 
I hope that this debate contributes to reminding Member States of the importance and urgent nature of this initiative . 
We have recently heard from the Portuguese Presidency that a serious debate on this proposal will soon be launched . 
The forthcoming French Presidency also seems willing to give this dossier the high priority it deserves . 
The Commission sincerely hopes that Parliament and the Council quickly finalise this important dossier which constitutes , in our view , the most effective answer to the concerns raised by cases such as the ones which brought us here today . 
As for the transnational level of employee involvement there is some indication that at least in one case the companies may have breached transnational information and consultation agreements which they had concluded with their European workforce . 
They may have at least exploited some ambiguity in the legal and contractual framework in force . 
The Commission will contact the relevant national authorities to check this . 
In any case , I wish to say to those who believe that their rights in that respect were ignored that adequate means of enforcement and redress are available to them , notably through relevant national jurisdictional instances . 
The Commission is aware of your request to proceed immediately with a revision of the European Works Council Directive . 
As recognised in the report , which we will adopt in the forthcoming weeks , we accept that the directive contains some loopholes . 
Nevertheless , as my colleague , Commissioner Diamantopoulou has already underlined on other occasions , when deciding whether or not to revise the directive immediately , different considerations must be taken into account . 
First , any revision of the directive would have little immediate effect on existing agreements , unless the fundamental principle of respecting the autonomy of the negotiating parties no longer applies . 
Secondly , an immediate revision would make things much more complicated as regards progress in respect of the other pending dossiers in this field like European company statutes and the national information and consultation proposal . 
The successful outcome of these other dossiers could greatly facilitate the subsequent revision of the EWC Directive and even provide some degree of a solution to the problems identified above . 
That is why we tend to consider that it might be more appropriate in this context to proceed with the revision of the European Works Council Directive only after the conclusion of those two dossiers and following a more complete evaluation of the application of the directive . 
Action is not limited to legislation . 
To encourage and support dialogue as the cornerstone of the successful adaptation to change the Commission is also developing the recommendations of the Lillehammer Report by preparing the setting up of a European observatory on industrial change . 
We are also developing another suggestion of that expert group , the Managing Change Report . 
Let me finish by addressing some of the other concerns expressed in the draft resolution submitted to this House . 
As for the enforcement of the links between competition policy and social policy , let me remind you that there is a provision in the merger regulation which enables workers ' representatives to be heard by the Commission in the framework of the relevant procedure . 
Generally speaking , we recognise the need for proper consideration to be given in different instances to all aspects surrounding these kinds of operations , including their effects in terms of employment . 
As an example of this I mention that public authorities , notably the Commission , have already taken measures through guidelines on national regional aid that came into force on 1 January this year so as to ensure that public funding remains associated with the recipients of regional aid and consequently with the jobs attached to the investment . 
To this end all regional aid is made conditional on the maintenance of the investment in question for a minimum period of five years . 
The same provision was included in the Structural Funds Regulation which means that it applies to all investments cofinanced by the structural funds . 
Social cohesion and the interplay of policies at EU - level is the focus of the forthcoming Lisbon Summit . 
I know we will be coming back to these issues again in the future to see how we can best make sure our policies are adapted and reformed to underpin economic and social progress in Europe . 
Thank you very much Commissioner . 
Mr Gorostiaga Atxalandabaso , I understand you have a point of order . 
If it is a personal statement , would you be prepared to wait until the end of this debate , at which stage I would be happy to call you ? 
Mr President , the problem is one of public honour in this Parliament , it is not a personal statement . 
This morning , the President of Parliament , Mrs Nicole Fontaine , repeatedly refused to allow me to make a point of order . 
Unfortunately , this is not the first time that Madam President has shown this inadmissible behaviour towards me . 
In doing so , Madam President has breached Rule 142 that states that points of order shall take precedence over all other requests to speak . 
She has also breached Rule 122 that gives the right to all the Members of this House to make observations , observations which in this case refute the remarks made by another deputy , Mr Vidal - Quadras . 
This partisan behaviour of our President should be criticised most firmly . 
I will willingly accept Madam President ' s apologies any time . 
Thank you for your statement . 
We will certainly make sure that the President is informed of your statement . 
I can assure you that as far as I am aware the President never likes to have a debate on issues in the middle of a vote . 
Therefore the House was probably quite willing to go ahead at that stage . 
But thank you for your remarks . 
Mr President , I welcome Commissioner Liikanen ' s words , and I am contributing to the debate - we are all contributing to the debate - because , although the subject is broad in scope , it also concerns a specific fact . 
The subject in question is of great political and social importance . 
Free enterprise , free movement and free competition are essential pillars of the political and economic structure of the European Union . 
Company restructuring is part of the principle of free determination of investments , and must therefore be defended . 
However , all too often we witness events which are in stark contrast with these principles . 
Today , we are witnessing one of these cases , which , on the surface , may seem to be of minor importance and affect only the specific industry , but which , if it is allowed to pass without an authoritative intervention by the European Union , will become an unwritten rule which will cause problems for many of the Member States and the Union as a whole . 
An American company - Goodyear - with production sites in Italy , Germany and England , is reviewing its production and relocation , justifiably , in its own view . 
However , it seems to be doing it without observing the relevant Community legislation , for it is certainly not giving reasonable notice to employees or heeding the obligation to render an account of their use of Italian and European public finances . 
In Italy , Commissioner Liikanen , Goodyear is not carrying out restructuring but closing a plant whose production covers 14 % of the market and which Goodyear itself defined as ,  ' having the most highly - skilled workforce of all its plants '  , a plant which was opened with a total of EUR 85 million of European capital . 
No notice was given of the closure , and no intention was shown of discussing the fate of the plant or its workers , despite the fact that the public funds invested in that plant make it much more public than private . 
It would be a serious matter if every non - European company were to learn to use Europe as a bus where you do not have to pay for the ticket , you do not have to pay for cooperation , you benefit from using the facility and you leave without being accountable to anyone . 
Europe has to guarantee every sort of freedom , including freedom to use one ' s own money for the purposes of one ' s own freedom and not to let others use it at will , others who make demands and then , when the break is made , refuse even to discuss the terms of the break , despite the fact that this is a break which has been declared unilaterally . 
Just now , Commissioner Liikanen was talking of restructuring which must not be uninformed . 
Sadly , in this case , he has not taken into account those who are affected and seems not to have considered those carrying out the restructuring . 
I would also like to point out to Commissioner Liikanen that it is not easy to take a matter to a national court . 
Of course , it is always possible , but when jobs have been lost and factories closed down , the idea of going to Court when proceedings are as lengthy as they are in Italy is not very reassuring . 
Commissioner Liikanen , we expect an authoritative intervention . 
As Parliament , we are , of course , expecting to be able to contribute to the resolution you mentioned - we are ready and waiting - but we expect an authoritative intervention on this , which can on no account be allowed to reach its conclusion and be forgotten , as has almost happened already . 
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , for the second time within the space of four months , we find ourselves debating the restructuring of companies in Europe . 
This is - as it was the first time round - sparked off by the reorganisation of large companies , which is linked to a drop in employment . 
I would like to make it quite clear that the Liberal Group is against any political interference in companies , in terms of both finance and management . 
Our task is to draft legislation and to monitor to ensure that it is observed . 
It appears that Goodyear in Italy received Italian and European subsidies to the tune of approximately EUR 40 million . 
The company went under despite this . 
This goes to show that jobs cannot be bought . 
The market is a law unto itself . 
As such , state aid costs the government twice : first in subsidies and then in unemployment benefit . 
Surely this cannot be the role of your , my and the citizens ' tax money ? 
All this , of course , does not mean that our Group does not share the concern of the Italian Members regarding the effects of the closure on the region concerned . 
My Group is also opposed in principle to the naming of specific companies in this resolution , for two reasons : firstly because this creates selective responsibility . 
A company is pilloried one day and not the next . 
Why should this be the case ? 
Michelin caused a great stir . 
But I did not hear a squeak when Nissan and IBM were discussed , where , similarly , a great number of European employees were involved . 
Secondly , this is not fair towards employees of other companies where reorganisations also take place and where it hurts too . 
My Group has signed a joint resolution with EPP and UEN , in which , however , we made it clear right from the outset that we are against the naming of company names . 
This is why the Liberal Group will vote against paragraph 8 and the second section of paragraph 9 . 
If these paragraphs are nonetheless adopted , my Group will abstain from the final vote . 
I do hope that this will not be necessary . 
Mr President , the Portuguese Presidency and the Commission ' s strategic objectives for 2000 - 2005 both talk of full employment for which two essential conditions are required . 
The first is to create new jobs for young people entering the labour market and the second is not to lose jobs . 
Yet the current situation in Europe provides us with clear examples of how jobs are being destroyed , particularly , and most seriously , by companies which are making huge profits . 
In the past , workers were asked to show their solidarity with companies in order to ensure their survival . Now the companies are making huge profits but are also making workers redundant . 
Examples have been given in Spain of Michelin and ABB - Alsthom and my colleagues will give examples for Italy . 
There is also another hidden way of making workers redundant , as practised for example in Spain by the Ericsson company under the term ' externalising '  . Note that sensitive words like ' redundancy ' are not used . 
Externalising services by subcontracting these to contract companies results in stable and permanent jobs being turned into precarious jobs without union or social rights . 
This is just an underhand way of making workers redundant . 
Commissioner , if the European institutions really believe in what they say about full employment , they must take clear steps to secure this . 
They must revise the directives in order to guarantee the participation of workers in these negotiations . They must revise the directive on collective redundancies , reduce the working day , link European subsidies to a clear commitment to maintain employment and include social and labour clauses in the international agreements signed by the European Union . 
Mr President , sadly , once again , Parliament is having to discuss the restructuring of companies in Europe . 
Yet again , workers are likely to lose their jobs . 
This time , I am referring to the workers of the company Goodyear in Cisterna di Latina . 
As has already been pointed out , in one month ' s time , 600 people and as many families could be deprived of their sole source of income . 
Despite the commitment they have shown to the company and despite their high level of professionalism - which has made the Cisterna plant one of the most productive in Europe - these workers are likely to be removed from the production cycle , while Goodyear , after years of benefiting from state and European subsidies , is totally free to walk out . 
I do not think this is at all fair , either to the workers at the Cisterna plant or to all those Italian and European citizens whose taxes have , albeit indirectly , enabled Goodyear to benefit from the state aids I have just mentioned . 
The European Commission and the Council must , at last , assume all the necessary responsibilities , both with regard to the adoption of a common position on the information and consultation of workers and with regard to Community and national aid , which must only be granted to companies who undertake to establish long - term agreements to protect jobs . 
Today , we ask the Commission to start by protecting the workers at Goodyear in Cisterna , and therefore to put as much pressure as possible on the company for it to come to an agreement as soon as possible , thereby ensuring the continued existence and operation of the Cisterna plant . 
Mr President , Commissioner , I would also like to remind the House that there is very little time available , and therefore that any measure - including those already cited by the Commission in its introductory report - which we adopt must have an immediate , timely effect . 
Mr President , Commissioner , as far as restructuring goes , there is no doubt that European companies must adapt so that they are better placed to face new challenges or go under . 
We are well aware of this current economic context and that the purpose of restructuring is to rationalise corporate management . 
Although it is laudable from an economic point of view to make structural changes in order to be more competitive and win market shares , this approach may be reprehensible if it is made at the request of financiers , often shareholders , with the sole unavowed aim of increasing the financial standing of the company in order to raise profits which they can then withdraw from the company . 
The various recent announcements referred to by previous speakers , be they by Michelin or Goodyear , are symptomatic in this respect . 
Rationalised management and improved profits should , in my view , serve the company and hence its employees first and foremost , and any financial benefits should follow . 
However , what we witnessing today is the phenomenon of concentration and corporate regrouping and relocation , with all the familiar consequences , both on the quality of products and at the social level , especially in terms of unemployment , difficult working conditions and increased flexibility : consequences which have a drastic effect at the human level , especially on the family unit . 
There is a very real risk of seeing a two - headed monster emerge on this planet , with poor countries providing the labour and rich countries providing the capital . 
Surely Europe should act as a safeguard , maintaining a certain equilibrium between increased profitability and social welfare ? 
We must not forget that it is human resources which make a company function at its base and guarantee it good results . 
Finally , allow me to remind you that the third letter of the EDD Group to which I belong stands for ' difference '  . 
Europe has a duty to make its voice heard as an alternative to savage restructuring for profit at all costs . Without doubt , the voice of difference in this monotonous flood of restructuring . 
Mr President , last month in the UK , in a region that neighbours mine , the Michelin Group announced significant redundancies at its Stoke - on - Trent plant due to company restructuring and increasing global competitiveness in the world market for tyres . 
I , like all Members present , am saddened by this loss of jobs . 
Equally , I am saddened by the announcement made by Goodyear that has prompted this resolution . 
But I doubt very much indeed whether a European works council would have been able to change this company ' s decision . 
This House is very good at producing resolutions and legislation and we sometimes , in this institution , forget that Europe cannot survive alone . 
We need multinational companies to base their businesses within our continent . 
In my few months here , I have found it astonishing that whilst we all talk about the need to encourage businesses to grow within the EU , nearly every resolution we pass actually encourages businesses to leave . 
In our last plenary part - session in Brussels we voted on the end - of - life vehicles directive and managed to make the legislation retrospective , adding huge costs for the European motor manufacturers that they could not have predicted . 
Two days later , Toyota , which employs several thousand people in my region , stated that this directive would not only increase the cost of cars but could well also mean redundancies in their Derbyshire plant . 
In a world where surely less regulation is the key , we in this House seem to believe that we can add more regulation and costs on business and that they will stay within the European Union , untempted by other locations elsewhere where there are fewer burdens . 
We MEPs speak often about SMEs and have now come up with a unique way of creating them . 
Take a large successful business , add European regulations , and within months you have created a small one . 
Perhaps before we criticise anybody outside this place we should take a good look at ourselves and what we do here . 
Mr President , I will not use my speaking time by going into the individual cases debated here today . 
In this respect , I share Mrs Plooij - Van Gorsel ' s view that we cannot talk about these in detail . 
But maybe next time , we ought to discuss CORUS , the merger which has now taken place between our Nederlandse Hoogovens and British Steel . 
I would like to place this discussion in a somewhat wider context and examine the link between policy in the field of company mergers within the European Union and policy in other fields . 
In this light , I am pleased that Mr Liikanen is present and we do not only have to hold this discussion , where the interests of employees are concerned , with Mrs Diamantopoulou but we can involve the Commissioners who are active in other fields . 
I would also like to advocate coherence in the Commission ' s policy from these different vantage points , unlike my predecessor , who holds the belief that there is no need for rules . 
We need to gain an insight into what companies are like now . 
At present , we are witnessing a number of large mergers between companies which originate in an Anglo - Saxon tradition and companies with a Rhineland tradition . 
What remains of the concept of what a company should be like now is naturally very relevant : whether it is merely the property and toy of shareholders , or whether it is a more broadly based stakeholder society , which is meant to guarantee continuity for staff , consumers , suppliers and the local population and has , in addition , a social function . 
As such , I would like to ask these various Commission directorates and these various Commissioners to provide a wider vision regarding corporate governments . 
I think that it would also fit in well with the plans which have been presented over the past couple of days on good government in Europe , as company policy forms part of this . 
The government is talking to trade union and Goodyear delegates in Italy as well , in an endeavour to find a solution to the closure policy unilaterally adopted by the North American multinational in Cisterna di Latina , an area of Central Italy which has already been affected by other restructuring operations . 
The closure means the direct or indirect loss of more than a thousand jobs and hundreds of families being abandoned to insecurity and sudden poverty . 
The Goodyear workers are putting up a magnificent fight , in the knowledge that they are defending not only their own interests but the interests of the Goodyear workers in the different European countries as well , and there are many of them : France , Germany , the United Kingdom , Poland , Luxembourg and Slovenia . 
Today , a small delegation of workers is here with us in the gallery , anxious to find out what their future will be , what solidarity the European Union will offer them and what policy it will adopt to prevent the multinationals acting solely and exclusively in the interest of their own market and profits . 
The European Union , in all of its aspects , must use all of its powers to resolve this and other disputes . 
Mr President , earlier this week President Prodi announced that one of the Commission ' s strategic objectives for the next five years would be to aim for full employment . 
He acknowledged that 15 million Europeans are currently looking for work and that unemployment is the main source of poverty and social exclusion . 
What is more , the Portuguese Presidency sees the fight against unemployment as top priority . 
Yet , all too often these political priorities are invisible in everyday policies . 
The Commission ' s decision to allow the ABB - Alsthom merger to go ahead is a case in point . 
The new company has announced its intention to initiate a restructuring plan with the aim of making savings . 
This global restructuring plan could lead to the loss of up to 12 000 jobs . 
In my region of the UK in particular the employment consequences of this merger have been severe as a result of ABB - Alsthom having announced that it was cutting 270 jobs in Britain with 95 jobs being lost in Stafford and 112 in Rugby . 
The company ' s failure to inform the works council about the proposals for the merger is particularly worrying . 
It is especially important in the case of large international companies where decisions are taken far from the employee . 
Point 17 of the Community Charter of Fundamental Social Rights of Workers stresses the need for consultation , adding that this shall apply especially in companies having establishments in two or more Member States . 
I do not think it is simply a matter of a Community charter . 
EU legislation on this issue could not be clearer . 
The Commission would do well in this sort of situation to make its decisions not simply on the basis of whether a merger will distort competition but also on the basis of the social and economic consequences . 
We need more joined - up policy making on these issues . 
What we also need urgently is an impact assessment study on the effect of merger in every situation . 
This is the only way of respecting Article 127 of the Treaty . 
I welcome the statement made by Commissioner Liikanen , but I also look for the support of this Parliament to ensure that the legislation which we have passed on workers ' rights is implemented rigorously and to ensure that impact assessments on the workforce for proposed mergers are undertaken as a matter of course . 
I have received seven motions for resolution tabled pursuant to Rule 37 ( 2 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
That concludes the debate . 
The vote will be taken later this evening . 
The sitting was suspended at 3 . 50 p . m . and resumed at 4 . 05 p . m . 
TOPICAL AND URGENT DEBATE
The next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance . 
Racist and xenophobic incidents in El Ejido ( Spain ) 
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions : 
B5 - 0149 / 2000 by Mr Galeote Quecedo and others , on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on outbreaks of racism and xenophobia in the El Ejido area in Spain ; 
B5 - 0159 / 2000 by Mr Gasòliba i Böhm and Mr Sánchez García , on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on racist and xenophobic incidents in El Ejido ( Spain ) ; 
B5 - 0162 / 2000 by Mrs Díez González and others , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on the outbursts of racism and xenophobia in El Ejido ( Spain ) ; 
B5 - 0169 / 2000 by Mr Puerta and others , on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left , on outbursts of xenophobia in El Ejido ( Spain ) ; 
B5 - 0175 / 2000 by Mr Bautista Ojeda and others , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on xenophobia - related incidents in El Ejido ( Spain ) . 
Mr President , Commissioner , whenever a serious social problem occurs , it always has a political basis . 
This is true of the disgraceful events which have recently occurred in El Ejido . 
The proof of this lies in the fact that the groups in this House have reacted and tabled several motions for resolutions . 
We all regret the deaths which have occurred and the violent and disproportionate reactions against the immigrant workers . 
We all , I believe , agree in our condemnation of the xenophobia and racism which was apparent in certain actions . 
These events certainly have their origin in , among other factors , the absence of a clear immigration policy allowing the affected communities to live together respectfully and peacefully . 
We hope that the events in El Ejido will serve as a lesson to everyone and will not be repeated . 
Yet it is not enough to regret the situation . 
We do not want Africa to become our cross , in fact quite the contrary . 
We must therefore act . 
I should like to highlight certain measures which we are trying to introduce in another European region affected by immigration - the Canary Islands . 
Firstly we are creating a network of reception centres for minors . 
Secondly we are conducting a programme of social integration . 
Thirdly we are carrying out education programmes on tolerance and respect . 
Finally we are producing a census of immigrants . 
I hope that these measures will help towards ensuring compliance with the Tampere Agreements on immigration and the new Spanish Act on aliens . In particular they must ensure that people arriving in Europe do not lose their dignity . 
Mr President , last week , in the Andalusian town of El Ejido , we saw scenes which were inappropriate to the European Union in the year 2000 . 
This was acknowledged by the Commission President , Romano Prodi , on 9 February when he confirmed that what had occurred in El Ejido went against the very principles of the European Union . 
These events have caused us great pain and shame and have awoken our fears given the extreme racism , xenophobia and intolerance demonstrated . 
It is incomprehensible that ways of coexisting and ensuring mutual respect cannot be found between two communities which are mutually beneficial . 
The only way to prevent these events happening again , in a place where there are large communities of immigrant workers , is through social integration . This requires a firm economic , political and social commitment from the competent authorities . 
We are all immigrants . 
For generations human beings have not always remained within the borders of one nation state but have constantly migrated . 
Geographical mobility is not an invention of the twentieth century and neither are its economic and work - related causes . 
We are all immigrants , if not ourselves personally , then through one of our relations or ancestors . 
However , instead of producing these events which we are condemning , migration must generate social , cultural and economic enrichment . 
What happened in El Ejido is unfortunately not exclusive to this one town of the European Union . 
We must therefore firstly condemn clearly and emphatically the brutal racist and xenophobic outbursts of certain inhabitants of El Ejido against immigrant workers in the area . A whole community should not have been held responsible , criminalised and attacked for one regrettable but isolated incident . 
Secondly , all the authorities must act immediately . Coordination between them is the key to combating this type of xenophobia and racism . 
In particular , local authorities and mayors have a direct responsibility to prevent any demonstration of racism or xenophobia , especially when this involves violent and aggressive acts against people and their property . 
These authorities must also help to achieve difficult agreements between the parties involved and must not hinder these , as has happened with the mayor in question . 
Thirdly , the political parties must assume direct responsibility for the political actions of their public officials . They must prevent any individual action or declaration which is contrary to the principles and values of coexistence and tolerance expressed by the European Union . 
Finally , the European Union must be responsible for monitoring the application of its principles . 
It must prevent any racist or xenophobic demonstrations in its territory and support and collaborate with national , regional and local authorities and non - governmental organisations and associations in the application of these principles . This must occur within a framework of constant action to combat racism and xenophobia and to encourage the integration of all immigrants resident in the EU . 
Mr President , initially our Group did not fully understand the need to table this motion for a resolution on events which seemed to be a local phenomenon . 
However , the incidents in El Ejido are a symptom of a phenomenon which is present throughout Europe and which deserves our full attention . 
We thought we had eradicated the terror of intolerance which racism had unleashed in Europe . Yet , over the years , social disintegration in Europe has been combining with an increase in migration from surrounding countries and increased awareness of human rights to develop into this climate of racism and intolerance . 
This is why what seemed to be a local and isolated phenomenon in El Ejido is actually a worrying symptom which is coinciding with the emergence of parties like Haider ' s . 
This House therefore proposes the adoption of urgent measures encompassing all the relevant factors and to be applied immediately . We must ensure respect for human rights , tolerance and multiculturalism and we must obtain an increase in budgets and action lines for social and health issues . 
In this respect we must not forget that the original victim ' s attacker was suffering from a mental illness for which he had been inadequately treated . 
The current difficulties must also be taken into account so that this town can adopt the necessary measures , as indicated previously . 
Finally , as our Nobel Prize Winner , José Saramago , has said , we are all in each other and as Jesus Christ said , although Saramago disagreed with this , we should not just love one another , more importantly , we should respect one another . 
Mr President , Commissioner , Andalusia is one of the most tolerant and multiracial regions of the European Union . 
Since time immemorial it has welcomed all those who have decided to move there and regarded them as Andalusians from day one , whether or not they were born in our region . Therefore , as an MEP , but primarily as an Andalusian , I can feel only sadness , repugnance and condemnation for the xenophobic and racist events which have occurred and which are foreign to this tolerant community . 
Yet a worrying situation is apparent . 
All decisions which are or are not taken and all agreements which are or are not negotiated by the Community institutions with regard to the economy of the principal sectors in disadvantaged areas like Andalusia may indirectly lead to these serious incidents . I am referring , for example , to the lack of agreement with Morocco and to the lack of solutions for the fishing industry , part of whose fleet is moored in Almería . 
I am also referring to the erratic management of the import scheme for fruit and vegetables by the EU which is dominating relations between Almería and Morocco . I am also referring to the immigration policy of the regions , Member States and European Union which , due to actions or omissions , is leading to a few territories like Almería having to support this migratory pressure from north - west Africa on their own . 
All these factors have unfortunately been accumulating over time and are now allowing those who are cruel , intolerant , racist and destructive , of which all our countries have some examples , but thankfully a minority , to light the fuse of xenophobia . 
Anyone , whether European or not , who lives and works in Andalusia , is an Andalusian and deserves our consideration and respect . 
The EU can and must speak out . For you , the south is Andalusia but for us Andalusians it is Africa . 
We must therefore ensure that the EU provides every possible resource so that the economy of the south can prosper and enable a society to develop with more tolerance and respect for one another . This has not been achieved with the solutions proposed to date which have quite simply been based on looking the other way . 
Mr President , Commissioner , I speak from experience acquired during many visits to El Ejido over the years . 
I was therefore aware how the situation was developing . 
Here in the European Parliament , as in many other institutions , we have watched this situation with concern and were beside ourselves when we heard what had happened . This is because we felt the problem to be ours , as it was . 
In El Ejido there is a serious social problem , problems of integration and employment and also a grave problem of public safety which acted as the detonator . 
These events have also acted as a wake - up call to our consciences . 
Here in this House , in Spain and in many other countries , we have all fixed on El Ejido . Yet what we do and say here and the concern we express will really serve no purpose unless this leads to the adoption of a much more determined attitude to finding out what is really happening , not only in El Ejido , but in many other places where this type of problem may be occurring at any given moment . 
We all agree in our condemnation of intolerance and we also agree that we must look forward . We will not find the guilty parties in this House or in many other places . 
Those responsible for what happened in El Ejido are a minority who set out to satisfy their desire for vengeance on the immigrants . We must bear in mind that vengeance is not a solution . 
These problems can only be solved by close cooperation between all the authorities in order to achieve social integration and respect for all working there . This therefore requires a determined fight against illegal immigration and profound respect for the rights of immigrant workers who are legally working in El Ejido and throughout Europe . 
Mr President , this resolution expresses solidarity with the democratic forces in Spain fighting for human rights . 
All the Spanish democrats wounded by what is happening in their country have our full and complete support . 
It was not only immigrants who were the victims of atrocities ; the democratic system in Spain has been held up to ridicule , despite having demonstrated its tremendous capacity to evolve over the last 20 years . 
Employers would be lost without immigrants . 
Working conditions are so hard and so deplorable that no Spaniard will accept them . 
Low wages , the lack of housing - some are living in cardboard huts - the lack of access to social services and the de facto system of apartheid are abominable and unacceptable and are not worthy of the respect which every human being deserves . 
What happened at El Ejido is the result of inadmissible racist and xenophobic practices in Europe today . 
For four days , the immigrants were collectively hounded . 
Women and children were beaten . 
Fleeing from all quarters , hundreds of immigrants took refuge on a hill on the outskirts of the town . 
We are right to blacklist Haider ' s Austria ; but we cannot allow little local Haiders to practice policies of racial exclusion and merciless economic domination . 
What happened in Spain could happen in any country in the Union if we are not careful . 
We all have a duty to put our own house in order . 
I support this proposal for a resolution , especially the points which refer to the application of Article 13 of the Amsterdam Treaty , and point 11 of this resolution establishing a link between the Structural Funds allocated and the fight against exclusion . 
It would be to our credit were the European Parliament to roundly condemn these events and support all proposals tabled in order to ensure that the rights of immigrants in Spain and throughout the Union are respected . 
Mr President , acts of racist and xenophobic violence are taking hold at the heart of Europe . 
Everywhere this violence is exacerbated by the spread of extremist movements . 
We must take practical steps today to put an end to all attacks of a physical nature . 
No European society can truly flourish when it harbours the risk of seeing one section of its population fall prey to the hatred of the other . 
Having received a delegation from the Austrian human rights association here yesterday and having seen what has happened in the province of Almería , it is easy to understand that we could easily have prevented this resurgence of racist hatred . 
These violent scenes at El Ejido are so similar to archive pictures of Alabama in the 1950s , when the KKK terrified the black population , that it is hard to tell them apart . They also put us in mind of Germany in the 1930s , when the Nazis were persecuting the Jews . 
Without wishing to lump everything together hysterically , because each period is different , we have failed to learn the lessons of history . 
That is my conclusion today . 
Because this witch hunt which broke out in the province of Almería should have been foreseen . 
It is the result , first and foremost , of the ghettoisation and exploitation of immigrant labour . Three annual crops of Moroccan and African workers support 100 000 people and manage to bring in an annual turnover of nearly EUR 2 million ; and yet 60 % of them have no running water in a region where , as we know , the temperature may reach 40 degrees in summer . 
We also know that many of them only earn EUR 30 a month , while their fellow European citizens can earn three times that . 
This precarious wage - earning position weakens these immigrants and their families and makes them vulnerable . 
The irresponsibility of certain elected representatives and the barely disguised complicity of the authorities have contributed to this racist explosion . 
We should counter such acts of terror , Mr President , by setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry as quickly as possible so that we can decide how we can succeed in preventing other conflicts of a similar nature elsewhere . My fellow Member , Mrs Roure , was right to remind us just now that we all need to put our own house in order . 
Finally , and I think this is important : why not have the honesty today to relay what was disclosed in a recent UN study explaining that , if Spain wishes to preserve its work , retirement and pension potential , it is no good just giving 30 000 immigrants a year legal status ; it needs to be prepared to accept 12 million immigrants between now and the year 2050 ? 
We must insist today as a matter of urgency on the right to education and the duty to remember , to recall the dates in history when our countries teetered on the brink of horror . 
We need to educate our children on these matters and finally have the courage to recognise that we will need to be prepared to accept many more immigrants in years to come . 
It just remains for me to urge you all to attend the demonstration on Saturday . 
We must take to the streets of Europe to protest against these alliances with extremists which are a disgrace to Europe and which lead our youth astray . 
Mr President , since the signature of the Treaty of Amsterdam , the European Union has had responsibility for combating racism and xenophobia . 
Two types of measure are required for this purpose . The first should seek the integration of people of non - European origin and the other should aim to organise immigration . 
With regard to the first , the Commission has sent us a series of proposals , contained in two directives and an action plan , which aim to apply the following decision taken by the Heads of State and Government in Tampere . This states that ' The European Union must ensure fair treatment of third country nationals who reside legally on the territory of its Member States . 
A more vigorous integration policy should aim at granting them rights and obligations comparable to those of EU citizens '  . 
This is totally contrary to what we have seen and found recently in El Ejido where there are irregularities , labour exploitation and indecent living conditions , which have been condemned in the past . 
I hope for prompt implementation of the measures to achieve integration . I also hope that the governments which produced such wonderful words in Tampere , including Spain , will work diligently to apply these . 
I have less hope about the development of an effective and fair European policy in accordance with the statement made by the Council on immigration . 
The only proposal which has been made is for the directive on family reunification . This is a key issue , as we have seen recently in the media that there are many men on their own in El Ejido . 
Yet we do not know whether this has been accepted by the governments . Outside the Community arena , some governments are making efforts to renew their immigration policies . 
This is occurring in my country , despite the government , the party in power being the only one which does not like the new law on aliens . 
The objective of combating racism and xenophobia , explained in the Treaties , should be the objective of all European institutions and politicians . 
On 28 February 1998 the European political parties , including the Spanish Popular Party , signed the Charter of European Political Parties for a Non - Racist Society . 
This requires coherent behaviour , yet local leaders of the Popular Party are throwing more fuel on the raging fire and boycotting the attempts of other institutions to put this out . 
The party to which the Mayor of El Ejido belongs should , according to the commitments signed in this Charter , act forcefully . 
It is only , as stated by Mr Hernández Mollar , through unity , responsibility and firmness that El Ejido , Spain and Europe will be able to overcome these events of which we are deeply ashamed . 
Mr President , one cannot but feel disgust and indignation at the scenes of lynching , no less , of Moroccan day labourers which took place in El Ejido . 
We do not the extent to which far - right commandos were to blame and how far the common people stupid enough to follow these commandos were to blame . 
We wish to assure these Moroccan workers that they have our full support - as if being exploited by unscrupulous employers were not enough , they have to suffer this type of aggression . 
And if the aggressors include working - class people , all we can say to them is that , in acting in this way , they are digging their own graves . 
In waging war against people who are as poor as they are , they are only doing their own exploiters a favour and preparing a future of oppression for themselves . 
But there are some who bear even more responsibility than the thugs who wielded the iron bars and knives : those who spread racist and xenophobic slander , those who indulge in anti - immigration demagoguery in Spain , Austria , France or elsewhere , sometimes even here in this House , are no better than those who take this stupid , reactionary demagoguery at face value . 
The lynch mob and their extreme right - wing mentors are the mortal enemies not only of the workers , but of society as a whole . 
 . I would like to begin by congratulating the honourable Member on the way in which he introduced this extremely important debate . 
I want to make it clear at the outset that the Commission unreservedly condemns the dreadful acts of violence at El Ejido against the immigrant workers of the region . 
We express our support for the families and friends of the victims . 
President Prodi and Commissioner Diamantopoulou have both issued separate statements . 
Naturally I completely endorse what they have said . 
It was especially moving to hear the remarks from Members of Parliament who come from the region about what has happened , uncharacteristically , in a part of Spain that I know reasonably well . 
Racist and xenophobic acts are wholly unacceptable within our Community , wherever they take place . 
They fly in the face of the very principles on which - as Mr Havel said yesterday - the European Union was founded : principles of liberty , democracy and respect for human rights . 
Of course progress has been made in recent years but we still have to work together towards a climate of tolerance in which racism and xenophobia are regarded as completely beyond the pale , completely unacceptable , while at the same time we deal very robustly with incidents such as the ones we are discussing this afternoon . 
We need , in our judgement , to focus on a package of measures including : first , the introduction of effective , anti - discrimination legislation at Union level ; second , implementation of a common immigration policy with regard to the nationals of non - Member States to promote , in practical terms , the integration of the immigrant population in Member States ' societies ; third , the introduction of measures to combat social exclusion . 
The European Union has already laid the basis for Community legislation on combating discrimination on the grounds of race . 
The insertion of Article 13 , which was referred to during the debate , dealing with non - discrimination in the Treaty establishing the European Community , is one of the most significant changes of the last revision of the Treaties . 
Since the Treaty of Amsterdam came into force the Commission has presented a package of proposals for the implementation of Article 13 including , in particular , a proposal for a directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment regardless of race or ethnic origin . 
This proposal is under examination by the Council and the European Parliament . 
The Commission hopes very much that this stage will soon be complete . 
The conclusions of the Tampere special European Council , as Mr Hernandez Mollar said , clearly illustrated the will of the Heads of State and Government as regards the introduction of a common policy on immigration and the principles on which it should be based , with particular emphasis on the Union ' s policy on the respect and promotion of the rights of migrants . 
At Tampere the Heads of State and Government also emphasised the importance of approximating national legislation on conditions for admission and residence of third country nationals based on a shared assessment of the economic and demographic developments in the Member States as well as the situation in the countries of origin . 
The European Council also considered it important to step up the prevention of illegal immigration . 
Its objective here is to secure the rights of victims of criminal networks organising illegal immigration , with particular reference to the rights of women and children . 
Those who organise illegal immigration should be prosecuted with the utmost vigour . 
The word that is used about them in Chinese society is ' snake - heads '  . 
It seems to me a fitting description of them . 
Let me also draw attention to the work on drawing up a European Union charter on fundamental rights , which has now reached the drafting stage . 
Those rights are , by definition , universal . 
The charter will extend to third country nationals in Member States even though certain rights will be reserved to nationals of Member States of the Union . 
The El Ejido incidents were shocking , as several Members have said in their speeches . 
But trying to take something positive from them , I hope they will spur us on to translate our aspirations about tolerance , fairness and freedom into real and effective policies that will help to transform the lives of all those families and individuals in the European Union who cry out for our understanding and our help and who deserve it , not at some indefinite moment in the future , but here today . 
Thank you , Commissioner . 
The joint debate is closed . 
The vote will take place at 6 p . m . 
Human rights
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions : 
Violence between ethnic groups in Mitrovica and Albanian prisoners in Serbia , notably the plight of Mrs Flora Brovina
B5 - 0140 / 2000 by Mr Dupuis and others , on behalf of the Technical Group of Independent Members - mixed group , on the situation in Kosovo ; 
B5 - 0141 / 2000 by Mr Schori and others , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on the situation in Kosovo ; 
B5 - 0150 / 2000 by Mr Oostlander and others , on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on Kosovo ; 
B5 - 0158 / 2000 by Mr Haarder , on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on multi - ethnic violence in Mitrovica , the situation of Kosovar prisoners in Serbia and in particular the case of Flora Brovina ; 
B5 - 0170 / 2000 by Mrs Morgantini and others , on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left , on the situation in Kosovo and the Albanian political prisoners in Serbia ; 
B5 - 0176 / 2000 by Mr Cohn - Bendit and others , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the situation in Kosovo and the Albanian political prisoners in Serbia ; 
Press freedom in Angola
B5 - 0148 / 2000 by Mr Dupuis and others , on behalf of the Technical Group of Independent Members - mixed group , on press freedom in Angola ; 
B5 - 0151 / 2000 by Mr Cunha and others , on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on freedom of expression in Angola ; 
B5 - 0160 / 2000 by Mrs Malmström , on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on freedom of expression in Angola ; 
B5 - 0165 / 2000 by Mr Schori , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on freedom of expression , independence of the media and due process in Angola ; 
B5 - 0166 / 2000 by Mr Queiró , on behalf of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group , on Angola ; 
B5 - 0178 / 2000 by Mrs Maes and others , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on press freedom in Angola ; 
Native Americans in the US - Dineh
B5 - 0152 / 2000 by Mr Van Hecke and Mrs Grossetête , on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on the rights of the Dineh people , Big Mountain , Arizona , USA ; 
B5 - 0157 / 2000 by Mr Sterckx , on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on the rights of the Dineh people , Big Mountain , Arizona , USA ; 
B5 - 0163 / 2000 by Mrs Van Brempt , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on the rights of the Dineh people , Big Mountain , Arizona , USA ; 
B5 - 0171 / 2000 by Mr Cossutta and Mr Vinci , on behalf of the GUE / NGL Group , on the rights of the Dineh people , USA ; 
B5 - 0174 / 2000 by Mrs Sörensen , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the rights of the Dineh people , Big Mountain , Arizona , USA ; 
Russian journalist Andrey Babitsky
B5 - 0153 / 2000 by Mr Oostlander and Mr Posselt , on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on the case of the Russian journalist Andrey Babitsky ; 
B5 - 0155 / 2000 by Mr Trentin and others , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , on Russian journalist Andrey Babitsky ; 
B5 - 0156 / 2000 by Mr Maaten , on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on the fate of a Russian journalist Andrey Babitsky in Chechnya ; 
B5 - 0172 / 2000 by Mr Vinci and Mrs Fraisse , on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left , on the journalist Andrey Babitsky ; 
B5 - 0177 / 2000 by Mrs Schroedter and others , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , on the case of Andrey Babitsky and violation of human rights in Chechnya ; 
Cambodia - B5 - 0154 / 2000 by Mr Morillon and others , on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats , on the need for an international trial of the Khmer Rouge ; 
B5 - 0161 / 2000 by Mr Maaten and Mr Wiebenga , on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , on the need for an international trial of the Khmer Rouge . 
Mr President , before we start the debate on Kosovo or Mitrovica , I must inform you that a nasty sense of unease has come over me . 
Indeed , it is not the first time that we will be debating Kosovo here . 
We have adopted resolutions in the past but they usually are nothing but a warning shot , as nothing is actually done with them . 
I very much appreciate it that the Commission always attends . I certainly appreciate the fact that Commissioner Patten is present , given his powers . 
But I - and many Members with me - also have to note that the Council is consistently absent from this debate . 
We need to cooperate with the Council too . 
I see that a diplomat from the Council is present who is diligently taking notes and who will then report to the Council but , for the rest , nothing will get done . 
I would insist on changing our procedures and on the fact that the Council should be present during the topical debate , so that we can enter into direct consultation with the Council . 
I think we should give this some thought . 
I would request you to pass this complaint on to the Bureau of Parliament . 
Thank you , Mr Staes . 
We note your concern and will pass this on through the appropriate channels . 
Violence between ethnic groups in Mitrovica and Albanian prisoners in Serbia , notably the plight of Mrs Flora Brovina
