Mr President , Commissioner , we have not signed this compromise motion for a resolution for two reasons . 
First , because Mr Sakellariou , who is known for his openness and tolerance and whom I shall not quote , vehemently vetoed it in a bid to set himself up as your moral defender . 
I have no doubt , and I am sure that you have no doubt , that this is a major new contribution on his part to the fight against racism and intolerance . 
The other reason is that this text does not , unfortunately , go very far . 
I think that it manages , through a series of clever devices , to carefully avoid addressing the central issue , i . e . the final status of Kosovo . 
I doubt that any of you still believe that Kosovo can one day become part of Yugoslavia . 
I also doubt that any of you can believe that Milosevic could resist for very long if the international community eventually resolved the question of the final status of Kosovo . 
I also doubt that any of you think that , as things stand , it is not in Milosevic ' s interest to pull out all the stops and destabilise Kosovo , as he is doing and as we have seen . 
Finally , I do not think that any of you believe that the present status quo will bring minimum stability and hence minimum development to Kosovo . 
I also noted a mistake in the compromise motion for a resolution , which you no doubt overlooked . 
You condemn the first direct attack on the KFOR troops . 
I would not want you to be birds of ill omen , but I fear that , by failing to confront the real issue , you will end up being just that and I shall hold you entirely responsible for what may happen . 
On the contrary , I think it is our duty to call on the Commission and the Council , which unfortunately is not present , to insist that the United Nations consider the question of the final status of Kosovo , of the multiplicity of micro - states in the region , of what happens post - Dayton and , finally , the question of real stability which can allow democracy to be built up in these countries and give the European Union a policy in this region . 
Finally , I would stress that we have been asking the Council and the Commission since July to take forceful action to secure the release of the 3 000 Kosovar prisoners and Mrs Brovina , Mr Jurti and Mr Hoti . 
I note that the Union is preparing to lift certain sanctions and that we have not seen even one of these prisoners released in exchange . 
Why not ? 
Mr President , what is happening in Mitrovica in Kosovo is appalling and reprehensible . 
Violence begets violence , and revenge begets revenge . 
The police forces which have been sent out do not have the manpower to stop what is going on . 
The Chief Commissioner of Police , Svend Frederiksen , has expressed his desperation at the fact that he constantly has to make do with less than half the manpower which was agreed . 
He has fewer than 2 000 officers , and it was agreed that there should be nearly 5 000 . 
The police force should be large enough for it to be a visible presence , so that people can believe that it is in a position to stop atrocities . 
It should also be large enough to be able to clear up crimes and punish those who are guilty of them . Otherwise , there is a danger of people taking the law into their own hands . 
It is therefore also important that local officers should be trained , and the idea was , in fact , that 2 000 to 3 000 officers should be trained . 
However , there are still fewer than 200 trained police officers to contribute to clearing up crime . 
A year ago , we did of course see what happens when agreements and resolutions which have been made are not followed up . 
I was in Kosovo on 27 October 1998 when the Serbs withdrew . 
The agreement was that 1 800 OSCE observers should arrive to guarantee the peace . 
After a month , however , there was still only a handful of observers . 
By Christmas , there were perhaps 100 and , by the spring , still only a fraction of the force it had been agreed should come was , in fact , in place . 
Atrocities were not even being recorded . 
Then the war came , and the observers were withdrawn . 
I would therefore ask the Commissioner : can you not in fact do anything to stop us repeating our follies here in Europe ? 
Can you not guarantee increasing the police presence to 5 000 officers and training local officers , who would naturally find it easier to clear up crimes than would officers from abroad ? 
I might also ask : when do you anticipate that they will be in place ? 
And when is more responsibility to be transferred to local democratic authorities ? 
I mention this last issue because it is the solution we should be embracing as quickly as possible if peace is to have any chance at all . 
All who are in contact with real life in Kosovo share the same opinion : it is a tragic , desperate situation where there is a democratic void and no possibility of the different ethnic groups living peacefully side by side . Mitrovica is a tragic example of this . 
Before military intervention by NATO , Milosevic ' s policy for Kosovo was certainly to be condemned , and the demands of the non - violent forces of the Rugovo era for the Kosovar regions to be autonomous were justified . 
But NATO ' s decision for military intervention and the KLA ' s support for the armed forces had a devastating effect and have reduced Kosovo to a colony , as well as destroying civil infrastructures in Serbia . 
Today , Kosovo has no adequate strategy for protecting minority groups , and these include not only Serbs and Roma , but also moderate Albanians who still believe in the possibility of peaceful coexistence and are persecuted by the extremists in power . 
It is useless to talk of the Roma houses which have been burnt down and the thousands upon thousands of new refugees and the refugees from Krajina , who are now living , barricaded in , in Kosovo , abandoned by the UNHCR , which itself has been abandoned by the donors , while the emergency is still of dramatic proportions . 
In the joint resolution , we ask the Council and the Member States to double their efforts to ensure respect for minority groups and to work towards the creation of democratic structures , giving a voice to all those forces which still believe in peaceful coexistence . 
In this sense , I am in agreement with Mr Sakellariou ' s proposals . 
Another subject being discussed is the release of the Albanians held in prisons , particularly Flora Brovina , a woman of extraordinary humanity whom I met , together with the Women in Black of Belgrade , during joint attempts to build bridges between women from different ethnic groups . 
Flora defended herself , and asked Serbs and Albanians to shake hands . 
Flora Brovina ' s husband is the guest of Serbian women in Belgrade . 
This is a sign of hope , the hope that it possible to act differently even in Serbia . 
It is not true that Flora Brovina has been abandoned . She might well have been abandoned by the large institutions , but we , who worked in Kosovo and Serbia for many years , are doing our utmost to campaign for her release . 
I believe that the European Union must do likewise . 
The embargo on Serbia must be lifted and Serbia must , in turn , release its political prisoners . 
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I would like to fully endorse Mrs Pack ' s very emotionally - charged contribution . 
What she has said here is completely justified . 
There is not one truth in Kosovo , there are several . 
I refuse to accept that we can now talk about a genocide in reverse - that is bending the truth . 
I completely concur with the draft resolution which is before us . 
We condemn all violence over there and that is what we need to do , but we cannot talk about genocide in reverse . 
Needless to say , the situation in Mitrovica is very dangerous and we all know why . 
There are also important economic interests at stake and the whole tragedy surrounding the Trepca mines also plays its part . 
We have already talked about the fate of the political prisoners . 
There is a great deal of pain , a lot of suffering in Kosovo . 
The people are holding demonstrations , they are sending us e - mails . 
They ask us where their children are , their sons . 
We need to be able to go back with a proper answer . 
The case of Flora Brovina is just one of many . 
We are right to include this in the draft resolution , but there are hundreds , even thousands of Flora Brovinas out there . 
I would ask the Commission and the absent Council at long last to do something for these political prisoners . 
The fact that they are locked up in Serbia also fuels the unrest and violence in Kosovo . 
Mr President , in the present joint draft resolution , paragraph 10 urges the Council and Member States - rightly so - to double their efforts so as to make the necessary manpower and resources available for the UN police units . 
This request is fully in line with the vision held by the Special Representative of the UN in Kosovo , Mr Bernard Kouchner . 
In order to fulfil his mission to restore and maintain public order in Kosovo , he needs , by his own reckoning , at least 6 000 foreign police officers . 
The UN , however , have pledged to dispatch a police force of 4 800 . 
To date , however , Mr Kouchner only has about 2 000 police troops at his disposal . Moreover , half of this group is from the United States and Germany . 
It is logical that the Special Representative of the UN in Kosovo is extremely dissatisfied with this situation , especially in the light of the endemic ethnic violence in the region . 
What is disconcerting , however , is Mr Kouchner ' s sharp criticism levelled at the French Government these days . 
Paris is leaving its fellow - countryman completely in the cold with a handful of policemen , not more than 37 , in the crisis region . 
For this hardly honourable position , Mr Kouchner blames none other than the Minister for Home Affairs , Mr Chevènement . 
According to Mr Kouchner , the Minister is said to have hindered the efforts of the French police officials on ideological grounds . 
I would ask the Council and the Commission to look into these serious allegations carefully and inform the European Parliament of the outcome . 
Press freedom in Angola
Mr President , I do not intend to repeat the premise put forward earlier for fear of being accused of improper publicity . 
On the question of Angola , I think that we would achieve an initial result if we had a resolution at long last . 
It would be the first in a long time . 
So I welcome it as such . 
I think that the European Union and the western world in general has had Mr Savimbi in their crossfire for some time now , with no discrimination whatsoever , but corruption is now so rife in Mr Dos Santos ' s regime that even his long - standing friends are starting to find it hard to pretend not to see anything . 
So I think that we urgently need to get to the point where we can pass a general political resolution in which we can get to the heart of the matter , especially the worrying things which we are discussing , particularly logistics support for the information services by the United States and Great Britain , generalised corruption in the regime linked to multinational oil companies and numerous other extremely ' spicy ' matters which we need to go into . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the European Parliament has rightly led the way in promoting human rights in the European Union . 
Clearly , governments are often more sensitive to the interests of realpolitik and to commercial , geostrategic or economic interests . 
We have established requirements for the countries which want to join our Union and we must also establish requirements for the countries which we support , because we believe in democracy and its values . 
A free press and informed public opinion are the heart and soul of a democracy . 
There can be no democracy without freedom of information and without free and informed public opinion . 
Yet the latter cannot exist without free and unrestricted social communication which itself cannot exist when journalists are persecuted , detained , threatened or put under pressure . 
We rightfully condemned the behaviour of UNITA which threatened the peace process in Angola and we used our authority to invite the two sides to stop the war and embrace peace . Rightfully and with the full weight of our authority , we condemn the persecution and threats against journalists and we call on the Government of Angola to ensure the conditions of freedom which are essential to the vital work of journalists in a democratic country and society . 
Mr President , how much longer can we continue our cooperation with Angola ? 
Human rights are being violated consistently and have been for a long period of time , not only by UNITA , but also by the government itself . 
The legal proceedings against the journalists fly in the face of every legal principle . 
The Angolan Government must immediately authorise a substantial UN presence which can mediate and can report on human rights . 
Additionally , European observers will need to be admitted to the trials against the journalists . 
Europe , as a major donor , has so far remained too passive with regard to Angola . 
If the Angolan Government continues to refuse to cooperate , measures will need to be taken . 
Without national reconciliation , reconciliation with Europe is not possible . 
This being the case , Angola will unfortunately remain a very rough diamond . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I fully support the motion for a resolution being discussed by this House . 
The repression of both Angolan and foreign journalists in Angola is scandalous and so serious that we cannot let it pass without comment . 
However , this motion is inadequate as it actually starts from the principle that Angola enjoys rule of law and is only imposing certain restrictions on journalists and restraining them . 
Yet this is not the situation . 
Angola does not enjoy rule of law . It is a repressive dictatorship . 
It is at war , and a bloody war at that , which is dragging on and on . 
The prevalent theory that the enemy must be crushed and physically eliminated to achieve peace is not one which we can accept . 
The repeated appeals made by the Angolan church and , for example , by Mr Mandela and Mr Mbeki , for new negotiations to try and achieve peace must be supported by this House . 
As another Member said , we must have a general debate on Angola and not just on the situation of certain journalists suffering repression in this country . 
For example , I have today received information directly from Rafael Marques , whose situation we are discussing , according to which two correspondents from Portuguese television have been imprisoned in Angola . 
These cases keep occurring . 
Yet the worst part is that there is no way out of the situation in Angola . 
The silence of the major powers and our own silence are questionable and are benefiting a regime of corruption , violence and war . 
I must draw attention to the fact that the war in Angola is spreading to other parts of Africa . 
It is impacting on the war in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and on the situations in Namibia and Zambia . It is now also affecting the situation in Zimbabwe where Robert Mugabe has just lost the referendum precisely because he has sent troops to the Congo to prop up Laurent Kabila who is beyond salvation . 
There are two sides in Angola or rather two armed groups . 
The first is the MPLA , which controls the oil profits . The second is the armed band of Mr Savimbi , which controls the diamond profits . 
It is oil and diamonds which are financing the continuation of the war which , as has been said , is terrible . It has displaced millions of people and caused them to go hungry . 
It has led to a critical and tragic situation in Angola . 
This war must be stopped . 
The authority of this House could play an important part if we were to have a major debate on the Angolan situation and also on the whole of southern Africa . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the motion for a resolution before us today is important because of its subject and the desire to protect the rule of law and press freedom . 
It is also very important because of the broad consensus which has finally been reached after some heated discussions behind the scenes . 
The problem considered by the motion is a major one but , as has already been touched upon , could be regarded as minor in light of the even greater problem of the general situation in Angola which is experiencing a terrible humanitarian disaster . 
This situation , as in neighbouring former Zaire , is like a festering wound in which it is not clear who is infecting whom . 
As Mr Soares just said , a truly terrible situation is developing in Angola and in other countries in the region . 
This was appropriately described a few weeks ago as the First World War of Africa , given the involvement of certain countries in others . 
This is a major issue because the Angolan State and authorities must assume their responsibilities . The international community and the European Union must spell this out very clearly . 
These journalists are professionals who are trying to inform the public in their country and denounce the corruption existing in this regime , for which they are being persecuted . 
It is clear that such a scenario will never allow peace to be established in Angola . 
We have experienced this in our own national and European history . People can only enjoy lasting peace if they are living in a free and pluralist society where everyone is mutually tolerant . 
The cause of these journalists is therefore one which we must embrace , although bearing in mind that the problem goes much wider and much deeper and is much more terrible . 
Like a previous speaker , I also fully support the appeals which have been made . 
We must , some time soon , find the courage to tackle the whole Angolan problem more broadly and more vigorously . 
In recent years , the behaviour of UNITA has merited our reservations and criticisms but this cannot be used to excuse the Angolan State for having established a disastrous war economy with widespread corruption resulting in the continued suffering of its people . 
We must establish dialogue with other forces in Angola , be attentive to the appeals of the Angolan church and encourage the emergence of other national institutions , national reconciliation and new cultural and political forces not engaged in war . These can then eventually free this country and this people from the armed fate which they have been experiencing for decades . 
The people of Angola deserve better . 
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , it seems as if the world is turned upside down . 
Journalists are sent to prison for simply speaking the truth , whilst soldiers who are supposedly fighting each other exchange smuggled goods in the bar in the evening . 
This is Angola ' s reality . 
We are now expressing our horror concerning this war . 
Three million victims , two million driven from their homes within the country ' s borders , hundreds of thousands driven away across its borders , including women and children . 
This is a war which transcends its borders . It is not just UNITA which is to blame . 
The government too is responsible for this continuing violence . This is why we insist that the journalists - more than 20 were imprisoned last year - keep speaking their minds . 
We would , at the same time , like to insist on other things . 
We want the UN embargo , which is supposed to prevent a large proportion of arms and ammunition from being flown across to UNITA airports , to stop . 
But what do these sanctions mean ? 
It is the western world itself which is partly to blame . 
It is we , our own people , who keep the war going over there . 
The so - called civilised world should hang its head in shame . 
This is also the case for the so - called statutory government which is just as guilty , because if this journalist has accused the President himself of deriving benefit from this civil war , then all he is doing is voicing what the entire world knows already and which is being passed on to every tribal district across Africa . 
Mr President , we are partly to blame for this war . 
We should stop financing this regime and we should certainly stop supplying arms for the war . 
Mr President , the facts are well - known . 
On 24 December , the Angolan court sentenced a correspondent of the Portuguese paper , Expresso , to a year ' s imprisonment and a fine of USD 20 000 . 
The journalist had brought to light a corruption scandal in the President ' s cabinet . 
The trial took place behind closed doors and the defendant was only allowed one witness . 
Another journalist was threatened with his life during a parliamentary debate last month by a member of parliament of the MPLA government party . 
These are only two examples of a trend in Angola to silence any government critics . 
Over the past year , more than twenty journalists have been arrested for alleged slander or criminal offences against state security . 
Their only crime was to criticise what human rights organisations have been denouncing all along , namely the large - scale corruption and disappearance of hundreds of millions of dollars , paid by the oil companies to the Angolan Government . 
Even the British Minister , Peter Hain , conceded this recently . 
We should ensure that the oil revenue is not used merely to finance the war or to line the pockets of prominent members of government , he told President Dos Santos last month . 
But , at the same time , we note that Great Britain and also Portugal are continuing to channel military aid to the government . 
There is indeed a great deal of hypocrisy regarding Angola . 
On the basis of a report , the human rights organisation Global Witness concluded that the western world is turning a blind eye to the activities of Dos Santos because it is fishing for lucrative oil contracts . 
I would like to challenge Portugal to deliver proof to the contrary , by making commercial interests subservient to human rights , to which so much lip service is being paid . 
In my opinion , Angola is a test case . 
We should , at any rate , judge the Portuguese Presidency on its actions and not on its words . 
Native Americans in the US - Dineh
Mr President , as Mr Van Hecke rightly pointed out , this is about human rights and about the rights of indigenous peoples , and Parliament must speak up , especially vis - à - vis good friends , and the United States is a good friend . 
This is about the repression of a minority which unfortunately goes back a long time . 
It is up to the European Parliament to protect vulnerable people . 
So we need to do this . 
This is also about respecting a culture , a language , a way of life and a people ' s religion , a vulnerable culture which has nearly disappeared . 
It is important to point this out . 
This is why it is necessary - and Mr Van Hecke has already mentioned this , and this is also what we clearly ask for in our resolution - that the role of mining in this vulnerable desert area is reassessed . 
We have just approved the water directive here in Parliament . 
The water which these people need to exist is under threat because the groundwater strata there are being drilled by a mining company , and this is why the traditional way of life of the people who live there is being threatened . 
The forced relocation scheme must be stopped unconditionally . 
People should no longer be forced to move . 
Over the past 25 years , no less than 25 000 people have been forced to move and this must stop . 
If people need to move at all , they need to be given a viable alternative . 
This is not the case here . 
The area where the people in question are now being taken - and this is also the reason for this resolution - is a polluted area which is economically not suitable . 
This is why I think that we as European Parliament need to ask the American authorities in any case to suspend the relocation scheme under discussion and , if necessary , abandon the scheme altogether . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , this is my maiden speech and I am delivering it with a great deal of pleasure and conviction as the topic is human rights . 
In terms of human rights , Europe has a very eventful past and this is why we have become to some extent the cradle of these human rights . 
We need to continue to stand up for these rights , especially in our own Member States and societies , but also elsewhere . 
As Mr Sterckx said , we certainly need to do this vis - à - vis the United States which , after all , is close to us in terms of democratic values . 
The treatment of the Native Americans in many respects flies in the face of the most fundamental human rights . 
The account of the Dineh Indians is telling . 
With the discovery and , certainly , the exploitation of black gold - and , later on , uranium and oil - all possible means were used to remove these people from their land and to send them to regions with few prospects other than poverty , hardship and contamination . 
The area in Arizona which is to be the New Land for the Dineh Indians was hit in 1979 by the worst nuclear disaster in US history . 
It is now the intention to send the last 4 000 Dineh Indians to this land . 
The fight of these Indians is being backed by more than 250 NGOs and , thanks to the efforts of the Belgian ' Mother Earth ' organisation , we are being kept informed of this situation . 
This too is characteristic of American society , which hears little about it . 
They get het up about wars and genocide on other continents , but wrongly keep quiet about the genocide taking place in their own country . 
Today , the Dineh Indians are facing their final fight for their right to land , for their right to dignity and , above all , for their right to their way of life . 
There are few of them left and they are up against a very powerful , economic adversary . 
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I endorse the many comments which have been made by the previous speakers , but I would like to emphasise a few things . 
The Dineh people belong to the North - American Navajo Indians . 
They are facing expulsion and have been fighting a battle of survival for dozens of years . 
They have been living in harrowing living conditions for years . 
The deprived conditions in which they are living at the moment is forcing them to compromise against their better judgement under the financial and economic pressure exercised by the coal industries . 
The Relocation Act , which was introduced in 1974 and aims to re - distribute the land of the Navajo reservation , authorised the relocation of the peoples . 
This relocation is , of course , unacceptable because human rights are being violated in economic , social and cultural terms . 
The Dineh Indians are being moved like pawns and , in that way , lose not only their past and the land which is so extremely important to them - the land of their forefathers - but also any prospect of work and sources of income . 
The Relocation Act was pushed through in Congress by a group representing the coal mining industry . 
Congress never questioned where the people living in the area would have to move to or how relocation would impact on their lives . 
The population was not allowed any input . 
This resembles a kind of trade in human beings . 
The relocation scheme was implemented and the Dineh people were moved to an area contaminated by uranium . 
After the collapse of the dam in New Mexico in 1979 , which resulted in the spill of 370 000 cubic metres of radioactive water and eleven hundred tonnes of pure uranium , this place is one of the world ' s most contaminated areas . 
The United States administration , the coal industry and all of us need to acquit ourselves of our responsibility and provide a sound alternative : either the soil is cleaned or the Dineh Indians are allocated a proper place where provision is made for all kinds of support , be it in the psychological , social , cultural or budgetary field . 
It is high time we respected the rights of the Indians . 
This is why we ask you to vote for this resolution : we in Europe should not be intimidated by American interests which are being pushed by financial , religious and industrial groups . 
So let us contact the United States now ! 
Mr President , in terms of human rights , there is of course a great deal amiss in Chechnya . 
We have received reports from human rights organisations saying that Russian soldiers killed and apparently even executed citizens - I am talking about old men and women - in Grozny . 
Citizens are believed to have been burnt alive in air - raid shelters . 
We insist that these violations of human rights are investigated . 
Despite the pledges made , violations in , for example , Alfanyurt have still not been investigated . 
International government organisations and non - governmental organisations must be allowed access , and the Union ' s general Council decided on 6 December 1999 to send representatives from the Member States to Ingushetia to study the humanitarian situation there . 
I am , to say the least , curious to know how they are getting on . 
The fate of Andrey Babitsky , the correspondent in Grozny of Radio Liberty , who was arrested by Russian troops , is a dramatic example of Russian policy . 
It contravenes Article 3 of the Geneva Convention of 1949 and is a flagrant violation of the freedom of the press . 
We want information from the Russian authorities as to Mr Babitsky ' s whereabouts and his state of health . 
Mr President , a journalist is on a fact - finding mission and this calls for freedom . 
Yet he is taken hostage and treated as a prisoner of war . 
The war in Chechnya , like any war , is a trail of horrors . 
The filtration camps are camps in which torture , rape and violations are perpetrated : we know that now . 
And just what is Mr CFSP doing ? 
Russia is a permanent member of the UN Security Council and a full member of the Council of Europe and the OSCE , it has been invited to G7 and is a client of the IMF and the World Bank . 
What are we doing about it ? 
I do not understand why the power centres of Europe are keeping quiet , letting things pass and , by working with the Russians as if nothing were amiss , giving its support to the government which is waging this war . 
I beg you to intervene . 
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the tragic case of the courageous Russian journalist Andrey Babitsky illustrates once again the depth of the democratic crisis into which Russia has sunk . 
The entire Federation is allowing itself to be taken in by the war propaganda . 
A warlord has become President and he has even been described as a reformer in some western quarters . 
Journalists , on the other hand , who are simply going about their work in Russia , i . e . endeavouring to produce reports which are as objective as possible , are being treated like criminals . 
The Russian Government appears to have lost its fundamental understanding of what democracy is about and truth appears to have become a threat in its eyes . 
I can only reiterate my appeal to the Council and the Commission to stick to the rules . 
It is simply not possible for a country to have normal economic relations with the EU if it does not recognise democratic principles . 
Mr President , what sort of government hands over one of its own citizens to people whom it itself describes as ' terrorists ' and ' bandits '  ? 
Without any hesitation , the Russian Minister for Internal Affairs , Vladimir Rushailo , earlier this week confirmed the answer to this revealing question . 
The victim of this exchange is said to be the 35 - year - old war correspondent of Radio Free Europe / Radio Liberty , Andrey Babitsky . 
I am using the phrase ' is said to be ' on purpose , because official Chechen sources are still denying that they would have exchanged Mr Babitsky for a number of Russian prisoners of war . 
In the meantime , the highest Russian authorities are casting a veil of secrecy over the mysterious disappearance of this courageous journalist . 
For example , Acting President Vladimir Putin gave an assurance last Monday that he had ordered the country ' s security services to bring the missing reporter back to Moscow safely . 
Russia ' s new strong man , however , added a rather puzzling comment to this welcome declaration :  ' As far as I am aware , Mr Babitsky already feels free . ' 
This distressing ambiguity on the part of the Kremlin is not really surprising . 
The facts are clear . 
Andrey Babitsky was an unwanted busybody in Mr Putin ' s ' anti - terrorist ' operation in Chechnya . 
Hence his disappearance of over one month . 
In any case , the Babitsky affair warrants one conclusion : the leaders in Moscow cannot possibly maintain that hostage - taking and trading in defenceless citizens is a specifically Chechen crime . 
This resolution is already the fourth in a row within a short space of time in connection with the Chechen tragedy . 
Nor is it a mere luxury . Indeed , it is in line with some thirty Russian media bodies which yesterday distributed a special issue on Andrey Babitsky free of charge . 
Cambodia
Mr President , Commissioner , it is because of my experience in the Balkans , when I was there on duty , that I call on you today to support the efforts of the Secretary - General of the United Nations to bring those responsible for the genocide in Cambodia to trial before an independent court under the aegis of the United Nations . 
I do not think that reconciliation is possible after such murderous tragedies , unless those responsible for starting them are brought to trial and sentenced . 
Nor do I think that the people who were their victims can give them a fair trial . 
I became convinced of this in Sarajevo when I had to negotiate the periodic exchanges of prisoners which accompanied each successive ceasefire agreement , none of which unfortunately lasted , between the parties to the conflict . 
Every time , just as the exchange was about to take place , we found men missing from the meticulously drawn up lists . 
Every time , when we asked why , the reply was the same ,  ' We cannot release him : he is a war criminal '  . 
In the emotion , pain and fury of the agreements , it was impossible to break the vicious circle of blood and vengeance . 
If we want to help the Cambodians with the task of reconciliation on which they have embarked , we need to try and sentence those responsible at the highest level and thus exonerate the simple underlings and all those who were willingly or forcibly dragged along behind them . 
I expect Ta Mok and his main lieutenants to be tried and sentenced by the establishment of a tribunal whose impartiality is guaranteed by the United Nations . 
This will be the only way for the Cambodians to pardon those who simply followed them and to achieve lasting peace . 
Mr President , it became known this week that two prominent Cambodian opposition papers have been threatened with closure because they are reported to have insulted the king and prime minister . 
These papers actively support the opposition politician , Mr Sam Rengie . 
Legal proceedings have been initiated against Sam Rengie himself in order to lift his parliamentary immunity so that he can be brought to trial for treason . 
In his millennium speech , he dared to raise the fact that it should become clear what the procedure would be for appointing the successor to King Sihanouk in the event of his death . 
In March of last year , a member of Sam Rengie ' s party was killed by a group of men in military uniform in the province of Kandal . 
In September , two members of the party were arrested because they were reported to have been involved in a rocket attack on the prime minister . 
This is notably the only party in Cambodia which has no military arm . 
In October , a member of parliament belonging to the same party was abducted by uniformed men and not released until the ransom was paid . 
The pattern of intimidation is clear . 
There is more going on in Cambodia : prisoners are being tortured , the army and police are involved in the trade in women and children , and people are held on remand to an excessive degree . All this is happening on a daily basis . 
Even more serious is the government ' s refusal to bring the leaders of the Khmer Rouge before an international tribunal . 
It is true , the civil war in Cambodia is over and political tension has eased . 
The way in which the political opposition is now being treated , however , gives us cause for great concern and , if it carries on like this , it is bound to impact on the Union ' s relations with Cambodia . 
Mr President , there is a new doctrine taking shape in international law , according to which no country can treat its citizens or the people living within its territory in any way it likes , and the sovereignty of the state can no longer prevent outside intervention when there are gross violations of human rights , not even when the government is legally or even democratically elected . 
Living examples of this have been the Pinochet - Ugarten case , Kosovo and , in milder form in our own Union , the debate surrounding the government decision in Austria . 
This is what is at stake now in Cambodia unless the leaders of the previous oppressive regime are bought to justice . 
At the same time , the struggle against impunity is under threat . 
The situation should also remind us all that the ratification of the Treaty for an International Criminal Court has been shamefully slow . 
 . 
Mr President , we had an extremely useful debate on human rights yesterday . 
I am pleased that we have had this further opportunity to consider a number of areas in the world - Kosovo , Angola , Chechnya and Cambodia - where the protection of human rights has been a particularly severe challenge . 
First of all , on Kosovo , the Commission fully shares the concerns expressed in these draft resolutions as regards general policy towards Kosovo , as regards the continuing ethnic violence and as regards the prisoners in Serb jails . 
Our efforts in Kosovo , as elsewhere in the wider region , are directed at short and medium - term recovery and long - term stabilisation . 
In particular we support the development of a free , democratic and multi - ethnic society . 
Our assistance programmes in the fields of democratisation and human rights should continue to build confidence in general and , in particular , to try to build confidence between the various communities . 
We have always condemned ethnic violence , no matter which ethnic group is the perpetrator or the victim . 
We consider it is unacceptable against Serb and Roma minorities as it was against the Kosovar Albanians in the past . 
We support the efforts of UNMIK , KFOR and the OSCE to establish a functioning civil administration and to ensure law and order . 
In this regard we strongly support the High Representative ' s recent appeal to Member States to provide more police officers for the UN civil police mission in Kosovo . 
It was a point raised by several speakers in the debate . 
I hope it will underline the importance , when we address the development of a Common Foreign and Security Policy , of looking at the non - military aspects of that policy as well as the military aspects . 
It is just as important to have headline goals for our policing and institution building as for a military capacity . 
We continue to be very concerned about the many civilians who are presently held in Serb prisons . 
I totally agree with the points put so passionately by the Mrs Pack , either before trial or following judgement . 
The plight of Kosovar Albanians who have been missing since the end of the war is particularly distressing . 
We call on everyone , within and outside Kosovo , to support these common aims , to support UNMIK and KFOR in their efforts to achieve them . 
Turning briefly to Angola , we had again a number of knowledgeable speeches , especially from Mr Soares , with his unrivalled knowledge of the subject . 
The Commission believes strongly that press freedom and free speech will be crucial for progress with peace and reconciliation in Angola . 
It is a vital precondition for strengthening democratic institutions and civil society . 
An area of special concern is the harassment of journalists , including temporary detention of members of the so - called independent press . 
The European Union made a specific démarche on press freedom to the Angolan Ministry of Justice in November last year . 
We fully support the work of the UN through UNUA , given its specific responsibility to monitor the human rights situation in Angola . 
We are also committed to the Security Council ' s sanctions against UNITA , including arms controls . 
While maintaining emphasis on humanitarian needs , the Commission is preparing for a post - conflict phase in our financial support for Angola . 
An essential element will be support for democracy and human rights , including specific initiatives to strengthen democratic institutions and civil society . 
The European Union has condemned the use of anti - personnel landmines and we are supporting de - mining operations through an international NGO . 
The resolution I would love to have a debate on in Parliament one day is on demining , and particularly the importance of destroying the stocks of existing mines : stocks in the Ukraine , stocks in Moldova and stocks elsewhere . 
This is a subject which is not given sufficient attention . 
On the question of the indigenous peoples in the US , I am sure that the resolution which was primarily addressed to the US authorities will have been noted by them . 
Our general policy however , is to recognise the inherent dignity and the unique contribution of indigenous people to the development and plurality of society , something we are looking at particularly keenly in the context of the northern dimension which we are trying to develop and which we are discussing with North America . 
The Commission shares the growing concern about the missing Russian journalist , Mr Babitsky and the conditions for the independent media in Chechnya more generally . 
This issue comes on top of our deep worries about the plight of the civilian population in Chechnya , and I have heard Mr Posselt on this subject before . 
There are alarming reports of human rights violations . 
Of course , there has been disproportionate use of force in the present conflict . 
The Commission delegation in Moscow participated in a European Union Troika démarche on the eleventh of this month . 
We underlined our serious concerns about freedom of the press and freedom of speech and we pressed the Russians to clarify the circumstances of Mr Babitsky ' s detention in view of their obligations in the field of human rights . 
We await a proper response from the Russians . 
In the meantime , the conclusions of the General Affairs Council earlier this week have confirmed the message which I have given today . 
And we are ready to return to the issue at the EU - Russia Ministerial Troika in Lisbon on 2 March , if we need to do so . 
Finally , on Cambodia and the Khmer Rouge : we strongly agree that senior Khmer Rouge leaders should be accountable for their crimes . 
I totally agree with the arguments that were put forward by Mr Morillon . 
We vigorously supported the Troika démarche to Foreign Minister Hor Namhong on 4 February this year . 
The European Union underlined its full support for the efforts of the United Nations on the need for a tribunal to prosecute former Khmer Rouge leaders . 
At the same time , we welcome the continued dialogue between the two parties . 
I am encouraged by the optimism of Kofi Annan , Secretary - General of the UN , on the chances of agreement on the proposed tribunal . 
The Commission will continue to raise issues regarding the rule of law , democratic principles and human rights with Cambodian authorities through the EC - Cambodia Cooperation Agreement which entered into force on 1 November last year . 
It has been useful to debate human rights twice in a couple of days . 
I hope we have other opportunities , but I hope we will have fewer examples of their abuse in the years ahead . 
Thank you very much Commissioner Patten . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place at 6 . 00 p . m . 
Danube environmental disaster
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions : 
B5 - 0164 / 2000 by Mr Leinen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , 
B5 - 0167 / 2000 by Mr Maaten and Mrs Thors on behalf of the Group of the European Democrat and Reform Party , 
B5 - 0168 / 2000 by Mr Oostlander and Mrs Grossetête on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and the European Democrats , 
B5 - 0173 / 2000 by Mr Papayannakis and Mr Sjöstedt on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left , 
B5 - 0179 / 2000 by Mrs Schroedter and others on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance
on the environmental disaster caused by cyanide leaking from a Romanian goldmine into the Lepos , Somes , Tisza and Danube Rivers . 
Mr President , we debated the framework directive on water this week , and the disaster in Romania has demonstrated once again how very seriously we need to take the protection of water . 
This disaster has raised a number of important issues which concern us as a European Union . 
We are delighted with the pledge that EU aid will be used to clean the rivers , and at least as important is the reinforcement of environmental awareness both in Romania and , more generally , in Central and Eastern Europe . 
We therefore welcome Commissioner Wallström ' s brief visit , for it can contribute to this awareness . 
After all , this is a candidate country we are talking about , and this disaster is in addition to the existing concern about whether all candidate countries will comply with the EU environmental rules in time . 
The polluter ought to pay . 
I wonder whether the European Union can recoup this kind of cost from the environmental cowboys who appear in the so - called ' Wild East '  , making use of the inadequate environmental legislation in place . 
I would be in favour of its doing so . 
Mr President , Commissioner , there has been one ecological disaster after another and , unfortunately , they are all similar . 
Once again , there is cause for concern at the serious pollution affecting the fourth most important wetland in Europe . 
The delta of the Danube is in danger . 
As in Spain in April 1998 , as in Brittany and the Vendée since last December , once again an exceptional natural site is under serious threat . 
The European Parliament is constantly drawing attention in its resolutions to this sort of danger , which threatens our environment , upsets our ecosystem and again weakens our populations . 
This new disaster raises the problem of the integration of the environmental acquis communautaire in candidate countries . 
The authorities in these counties , which are still very frail from an environmental point of view , need to overcome numerous obstacles . 
First , they need to be able to prevent this type of discharge more efficiently by equipping the most critical industrial sites ; then they need to have suitable technical means of curbing and containing this type of pollution and , finally , they need to be able to implement programmes to restore the most affected and the most sensitive sites . 
Today , the banks and the waters of more than four rivers crossing four countries are polluted , which is why the European Union needs to concentrate its efforts and pressure on the urgent need for all candidate countries to come into line with Community environmental protection standards . 
But , over and above that , it is the technologies and the means used to prevent and deal quickly and efficiently with this type of disaster which are being called into question . 
I hope that our future partners will demonstrate greater responsibility . 
The environment must be a priority area within the reunification of the European continent . 
It must form the basis for our partners ' political will . 
Implementing high environmental standards will not only allow important industrial and technological sectors to develop , it will also have social and economic benefits and , at the same time , public health standards will improve . 
The efforts already being made need to be stepped up . 
The European continent needs to demonstrate solidarity and responsibilities must be clearly defined on the basis of the ' polluter pays ' principle . 
Mr President , when the Doñana disaster occurred , the non - governmental organisation , the World Wide Fund for Nature , gave us a report on the number of reservoirs of this type in Europe . 
The number is huge . They are an ecological time bomb and affect the drinking water supply , ecological wealth and economic future of surrounding areas . 
I visited Doñana after the spill and saw how agriculture , fishing and the lives of people in the surrounding area were enormously compromised . 
I therefore believe that the European Union must , to start with , carry out an analysis of the situation of these reservoirs and compile a precise record of the number of these in Europe . 
We must bring these reservoirs under Community law and the directives on waste and we must use the precautionary principle to ensure that this type of event does not happen again . 
If we do not , we will be permanently endangering the ecological wealth of our continent . 
