Mr President , this disaster at the mine in Romania affects a large hydrogeological area with rivers and watercourses in Romania , Hungary , Serbia and Bulgaria , The fact that 100 000 m3 of cyanide - poisoned water and large quantities of heavy metals have leaked out into the ecosystem is going to have appalling consequences for people in the area for a very long time to come , as well as for animal and plant life , agriculture , the tourist industry , biodiversity and the whole of the ecosystem . 
It is incomprehensible that an accident of this kind could have happened at all today . 
Is a substance as poisonous as cyanide really to be used in the mining industry and in the production of metals ? 
The answer , of course , is an emphatic no . 
There must be no more manufacture or use of cyanide . 
I assume , therefore , that the EU will take the initiative and see to it that there is a total , worldwide ban on the manufacture and use of that substance . 
It has already been banned in most EU countries for a long time now . 
That an accident like this can happen at all is therefore an extremely shameful state of affairs . 
I have been informed that the Commissioner for the Environment , Margot Wallström , has travelled from Strasbourg to Romania in order to see for herself , on the spot , what has happened . 
My Group assumes that Margot Wallström will promise to provide aid to those communities which have been affected : economic aid , support in terms of environmental expertise and help in connection with the massive cleaning - up operation which is required . 
This highlights the need for something which we in the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance have been demanding for an extremely long time , namely a rapid reaction force offering protection to civilians in the event of major environmental and industrial catastrophes of this type . 
It also sheds light upon the low level of environmental requirements in some of the applicant States . 
We must demand that there should be no exceptions which could jeopardise people ' s health and the ecosystems . 
Mr President , I do not think we are in a position to throw stones at the Eastern European countries which have come knocking at the door of the European Union , because ecological disasters occur as much here , in the west , as they do in the east . 
For example , the overflow from the decanting basins at the gold mines in Salsigne , in France , have caused tremendous pollution and are a huge economic disaster even today . 
We know full well that pollution and restoration costs run into billions . 
Who is going to pay ? 
Which is why the environmental aspect , which is becoming a matter of urgency , must be taken into account in all development projects at all costs . 
I too should like to ask the European Union to put its own house in order here , i . e . to call on Member States which still have gold mines to commission expert reports , so that we know just what the situation is . 
I am thinking in particular of the gold mines in French Guiana , where the workers , who are generally women , are exploited and work in absolutely deplorable health conditions . 
 . Let me associate myself , not least as a former Environment Minister , completely and without any reservation whatsoever , with the expressions of concern by honourable Members . 
An objective assessment of the facts is not easy at this stage . 
But early reports suggest that the poisoning of the Lepos , Tisza , Somes and Danube Rivers is a very serious environmental tragedy . 
It has destroyed an entire ecosystem in a matter of days . 
No living organisms , from microbes to otters , have been spared . 
Several Members have set out what seems to have happened . 
We have all seen some of the consequences on our television screens . 
Some environmental experts have put the environmental consequences of this disaster , at least so far as damage to the ecosystem is concerned , on a par with Chernobyl . 
It has affected the peoples of three countries - Romania , Hungary and Yugoslavia . 
It is the Tisza , Hungary ' s second river , perhaps its most beautiful and most loved by its people , that has borne the brunt . 
As with all such disasters it is the long - term consequences that are the most pernicious . 
Some estimates suggest that it could take up to five years to restock the river . 
There is a continuing threat to other wildlife from eating toxic fish . 
We plainly have a responsibility to do everything we can , as rapidly as we can , to help cope with this catastrophe . 
That is certainly the view of my colleague , Commissioner Wallström , who I know would have wished to respond to this resolution in person today . 
The reason she cannot do so is because , as some honourable Members have pointed out , she is in Hungary and Romania to see for herself the extent of the damage and how best we can help the Hungarian and Romanian authorities to tackle the crisis . 
We stand ready to do so . 
We contacted the Romanian Government and the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River about the accident earlier this month to seek more information urgently . 
The Romanians have approached UNEF and OCHA , in Geneva , for an assessment of the damage in the Danube catchment area by an independent and international team of experts . 
We stand ready to assist in this assessment if there is a joint request from Hungary and Romania and if access to the sites for nationals of both countries can be guaranteed . That is obviously crucial . 
It is plainly essential to establish as rapidly as possible an accurate picture of the scope of the damage so that we can decide exactly how best to help tackle it . 
It is to that end that our efforts are now engaged . 
There is also a need to clarify the legal responsibilities of the mining company and of the Romanian authorities . 
This is an important point , as several speakers have suggested . 
The polluter - pays principle is a cornerstone of European Union environmental policy . 
It is mirrored in the International Convention for the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Danube River and it should be applied in this case . 
The European Union could not substitute itself for the mining company for any compensation payments due . 
The Union has mobilised some EUR 20 million over the past seven years to support protection of the Danube River basin . 
In the context of pre - accession aid to the region it may be possible to redirect some of the assistance we are giving under ISPAR and PHARE to tackle the most severe impact of this accident , as long as the polluter - pays principle is fully respected . 
We will want , in the longer term , to see what lessons can be drawn from this disaster , above all to see how to prevent such disasters happening in the first place . 
The incident reinforces the case for a strengthening of European civil protection , along the lines suggested by President Prodi in his recent speech and as suggested by one or two Members today . 
But for now the priority is to cope with this crisis . 
As I have said , my colleague , Commissioner Wallström , is on the spot today . 
She will want to keep Parliament closely in touch with the action she proposes as a result of her visit . 
This has been an appalling tragedy for Europe and Europe has to respond and do all it can to ensure that incidents as dreadful as this do not continue to blight our future . 
The debate is closed . 
We shall now proceed to the vote . 
VOTE
 .  ( FR ) The only reason we voted for the PSE - Verts / ALE - GUE / NGL compromise motion for a resolution is because this resolution allowed us to condemn the decision by the Goodyear - Dunlop management to close its factory in Italy . 
However , the measures set out in this resolution are derisory in terms of combating the policy of the major industrial groups which are shedding jobs and exacerbating unemployment . 
Moreover , it is all just words , because the Socialist governments , which are now in a majority in Europe , are just as incapable of taking action to prevent redundancies as right - wing governments . 
The real problem is not finding a legal way of slightly complicating redundancy procedures , but banning them . 
The only way of stopping the diabolical machine which produces capital gains on the one side and unemployment on the other is to ban redundancies in all large companies which are in profit , on pain of compulsory purchase , and to publish the accounts of large companies and subject them to the scrutiny of the workers and the general public . 
Society must have the means of enforcing its own agenda on large companies and their owners . The first item on that agenda is the eradication of unemployment . 
The sums needed to create useful jobs in public services and finance the distribution of work among everyone , without cutting wages , must be taken from the profits of large companies . 
It is far more important for the majority of society than the waste involved in financial operations or the scandalous enrichment of a minority of large shareholders . 
 . 
 ( SV ) I cannot support the present resolution because , in paragraph 8 , an individual factory in Italy is singled out with the express wish that precisely this establishment should remain in place , while the current management is being advised to try to sell the factory to a European tyre manufacturer . 
It is not the European Parliament ' s business to express an opinion on which factories in the European Union ' s 15 Member States are to remain in place and which are to be shut down ; to expand their work forces or reduce them ; stay in the same location or else move ; be sold or not be sold ; and , in the case of those which are to be sold , to comment on whether they are to be sold to companies within or outside Europe . 
Ultimately , it is a question of different spheres of authority , where the European Parliament and its Members do not have any legal means of changing the current corporate decision or do not even have a particularly deep knowledge of the situation in the factory as it stands . 
The Swedish Christian Democrats would emphasise the value of the European Union ' s and the European Parliament ' s concentrating on their basic tasks and not undermining the value of their actions in these areas by also acting in areas outside their jurisdiction . 
Tourism and employment
The next item is the report ( A5 ­ 0030 / 2000 ) by Mr Viceconte , on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , on the communication from the Commission :  ' Enhancing tourism ' s potential for employment - follow - up to the conclusions and recommendations of the High Level Group on Tourism and Employment '  [ COM ( 1999 ) 0205 - C5 - 0112 / 1999 - 1999 / 2115 ( COS ) ] . 
 , rapporteur . 
 ( IT ) Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , despite the European Union ' s delay and indecision with regard to the introduction of a fully - fledged Community policy on tourism , increasing attention is being paid to tourism as a sector capable of generating new jobs . 
One of the reasons for the Community ' s interest is the structural flexibility of this sector of the employment market , which explains its attractiveness for women and young people , to whom it often offers their first experience of employment . 
The importance of the tourist industry and its impact on employment - although everyone is now aware of this - is nevertheless based more on personal experience rather than on verifiable statistical data . 
The fact that , due to the absence of sufficiently reliable and scientific statistical data , the tourist industry is in effect an unknown quantity has greatly limited the prospects of pursuing a consistent policy in this area and creating employment on a wider scale . 
It would be appropriate , therefore , to begin by summarising the impact of tourism on the lives of Union citizens and the desirability , in both economic and social terms , of promoting the European tourist industry . 
Firstly , I would remind you that the tourist industry is one of the infrastructures which any advanced society must have . 
Without it , institutions , business and the world of work could not function . 
Tourism must therefore be thought of as the whole range of goods and services required by individuals moving from their habitual place of residence and thus confers mobility , the characteristic feature of contemporary society . 
The term ' tourism ' must no longer be solely perceived as synonymous with sun , sea and holidays , which has the effect of reducing the interest taken in the subject at institutional level . 
Secondly , I would like to explode a myth , taking as a starting point an apparent paradox , which is clearly highlighted by Eurostat figures : the main international tourist countries are not those traditionally regarded as tourist destinations , but on the contrary the most advanced nations , whose quality of life is one of their main attractions and most heavily promoted features . 
Clearly , the importance of tourism for the economy of regions traditionally regarded as tourist destinations , southern regions for example , is very different , and should be studied carefully . 
It is an obvious truth , and one that is measurable by other economic and social indicators , that thanks to tourism , many Mediterranean regions have undergone a radical change for the better in their economic and social system and the way of life of their inhabitants , and achieved a drastic reduction in the numbers emigrating . 
Social growth has occurred only in those areas where the tourist market has given rise to the development of all the activities required to meet the needs of visiting tourists , thus creating an entire productive system . 
In such cases , there is a measurable increase in employment as a result of the growth in tourist numbers , thus establishing a virtuous circle of growth in the local economy . 
This reminds us that tourism cannot be regarded as the poor countries ' petroleum industry , because it requires huge investment in structures , infrastructures , entrepreneurship , professional expertise , social services and training ; that the tourist industry is essential for the equilibrium of many regions as it provides a direct source of employment and a market for all local productive activities : agriculture , small firms in the industrial and craft sector , transport , services , retail sector , training , etc ; that the development of the Community ' s tourist industry is closely linked to its sustainability with regard to the Community objectives ; that the varied geography and historical , cultural and environmental heritage must be protected and exploited . 
In my opinion , the European Union can , in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity , supplement the action of the Member States and contribute to consolidating the potential of tourism by means of certain measures , such as the adoption of a specific legal basis for tourism policy in the Treaties ; the adoption of mechanisms within the programmes and projects set up under its regional policies and other policies of the Union , with a view to promoting tourism in all its forms : rural , environmental , cultural , conference - based , spa - related and sports - related tourism , and also tourism focusing on senior citizens , research and training ; the amendment of Directive 95 / 57 / EC on the collection of statistical information in the field of tourism ; the cofinancing of projects to set up new transport services and infrastructures ; the cofinancing of pilot schemes involving benchmarking and the exchange of experiences . 
These and other specific measures included in my report can , in my view , lend added value to the actions that the competent national and regional authorities should foster , in order to promote tourism and create new jobs , starting with the adoption of positive fiscal measures to assist small and medium - sized firms , particularly by reducing the burden of charges on labour . 
Mr President , Commissioner , before I explain to you the position of the Committee on Women ' s Rights and Equal Opportunities , I would like to share with you three basic factors which , in my opinion , determine the present and future of European tourism in an international environment . 
In Europe today , the tourism market contributes 5 . 5 % of the gross national product and occupies a rather significant proportion of the workforce , approximately 6 % . 
Those figures are incomparably higher for some countries . 
To grasp the importance of tourism for some parts of Europe , it is worth pointing out that in my own country , Greece , a country that attracts tourists , over the past four decades , during which the farming population has clearly aged and the population is over - concentrated in the major urban centres , the only areas which have retained populations of low average age or to which young people have returned are ones where tourism has developed . 
It is therefore clear that besides being a matter of general economic interest for Europe , tourism is a priority for the economic and social participation of the European Union ' s regions . 
Another factor is that the world market is growing explosively . 
The forecast is for ten billion tourists in 2010 , but unfortunately for Europe there is a reverse trend . 
Europe ' s share of the increase is falling drastically each year to the benefit of Asia , the Far East and America . 
You see , the world tourism market is influenced every day and directly by the liberalisation of transport , its reduced cost , and competition from new centres of tourism outside Europe . 
Furthermore , 90 % of businesses active in tourism are small or medium - sized , the very enterprises which form the living cells of our social and economic tissue , which are called upon to tackle the new obstacles and respond positively to the challenges of this global development . 
As the rapporteur said , this becomes particularly important when tourism is appreciated as a unitary productive system because of its ability to absorb large quantities of agricultural and industrial products , services and transport and to create a significant amount of added value . 
Here , then , I want to point out that international competition is tough and , if we are to overcome it positively , we must together envision and share a long - term strategy . 
We must take very serious note of the need to upgrade the human resources engaged in tourism , so that tourism will be able to respond to the new technological challenges of our age . 
Today , nobody can ignore the fact that new digital technologies and systems , with Internet at the sharp end , mobile telephones and digital television , are bringing about radical changes in tourism as a whole and its respective structures and operational models . 
The introduction of these new technologies is not a threat , but a new opportunity for our tourism because it offers the potential to provide new and innovative tourism products and services , which our tourism needs for an ever - lengthening tourism season , so that it can attract new customers and offer new and alternative forms of tourism . 
The new technologies also make it possible to open new markets in traditionally undervalued , non tourist areas , which could develop to become centres of tourism and attract substantial investments . 
To this new labour market there must be a response in the programmes of tourism schools and training programmes for company staff , including programmes for training the unemployed and their re - introduction to work . 
The Committee on Women ' s Rights paid particular attention to the issue of education , because according to official figures women account for 53 % of those engaged in tourism services , and in parallel , they form a majority among the working people most easily affected by social and economic change . 
We must not forget that people working in tourism , especially women , encounter particular problems such as seasonal work , the need to renew contracts from one year to the next , social protection , lack of interest in continuing education , and reduced possibilities for development . 
We therefore ask the European Commission for special measures and to adopt the principle of equal opportunities in all tourism programmes and programmes for company development . 
Mr President , I would like to begin with some words of optimism , which came to us in the form of the High - Level Group communication of October 1998 , the first page of which said that by the end of the next decade , it would be possible to create between 2 200 000 e 3 300 000 new jobs in tourism activities in the Union . 
In addition , it said that this would only happen if the right conditions were created . 
The Commission and Parliament are called upon to answer two questions : what are the right conditions and what is the role of the European Union on this ? 
The Commission and Parliament can help us understand , in the first place , exactly what we are dealing with , because even the term ' tourism '  , as was , moreover , pointed out in the Viceconte report , is still an ambiguous term , a kind of variable that depends on latitude , climate , a range of opportunities , and a series of background factors ; it can be synonymous with holidays or it can be a true area of production , income , wealth and employment . 
There is a shortage of facts : we have no information on the economic impact , which still remains a complete mystery . 
We have criteria for the gathering and interpretation of statistics which are totally at odds with each other , despite what was said in a 1995 directive by the Commission and Parliament . 
With the aim of working out a strategy , it is vital to have a reading of these facts which harmonious and as strict as possible , so that we truly make tourism capable of creating jobs . 
This does not follow automatically : often in the past a great deal of wealth has been accumulated thanks to the promotion of the tourist industry , without this being matched by an increase in employment . 
There is no legal basis , and we feel that this is currently the major obstacle to any intervention in the tourism sector . 
A legal basis translates into the ability to formulate strategies , to coordinate and to programme , all vital factors for making European Union tourism competitive with other markets . 
A legal basis would mean we would avoid having to draw on the Structural Funds , as was the case in the past , to obtain some loose change . Moreover , only minimal amounts were made available to us : we should bear in mind that the Commission communication indicated amounts totalling EUR 4 700 000 000 over the last five years , which corresponds to the cost of building 400 kilometres of motorway . 
There is no opportunity to send a strong message to the Member States : recognising the legal basis of tourism would allow the States to acknowledge one of the European Union ' s competences which at the moment , is only exercised in fits and starts . 
We fully endorse the Community measures which were recommended in the Commission communication : advantageous taxation , that is , fiscal measures that offer conditions that are truly competitive in this market to the production sector - 95 % of which , I would point out , is made up of small and medium - sized businesses , which is equivalent to 2 million small and medium - sized businesses in the European tourism sector ; it awards special attention to vocational qualifications in the European Union , and therefore to investing in training ; finally , it undertakes to make the job market transparent . 
The tourism market is by definition a flexible market ; we do not want this flexibility to be seen in a solely negative light , with seasonal work being misinterpreted as illegal work : remember that 50 % of employment , especially in southern countries of the European Union , is done on the black economy . 
We feel that the European Union and the Commission needs to make a strong commitment to sustainable tourism , which means having a strategy that is compatible with the environment , after the excesses of recent years when private wealth often did not correspond to high levels of employment . 
First and foremost , we need to compete in terms of quality . 
Finally , we consider that tourism can , in addition to being a growth factor , be a factor for democracy , and in this regard we are asking the Commission for a clear , conscious commitment . 
Mr President , there are three points I wish to address . 
The first is the inclusion of a legal base in the Treaty . 
This is something I favour , but currently as part of a minority in my own Group . 
We are all fully conscious of the importance of tourism , both to local economies and as a factor of European integration . 
The problem for some of us , however , is the lack of specification of the extent of the legal base and of just how it would relate to considerations of subsidiarity . 
Second , there are similar issues related to the establishment of a multiannual programme for tourism . 
The resolution contains many excellent ideas for the promotion of different types of tourism and for its increasing professionalism . 
At the same time the Commission is currently concerned about confining itself to core tasks . 
The question has to be asked whether some of the activities suggested in the resolution might not put more pressure on its resources than is desirable . 
Third , there are several references in the resolution to permanent employment . 
Of course the promotion of this is desirable and permanent employment need not necessarily mean full - time employment . 
But there will always be people who are looking for seasonal employment . 
Students are an obvious example . 
We have some concern that the resolution does not give enough consideration to them and to ways in which their interests could receive specific protection . 
Thus , while complimenting Mr Viceconte on his report and finding a great deal in the resolution to commend , we shall be asking for a number of split votes to allow these concerns to be addressed . 
Mr President , during the most recent meeting of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , I was pleasantly surprised . 
The opinion of Mr Sánchez García , addressed to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs , contained a remark regarding the IGC . 
The draftsman of the opinion held the view that there was no need for a legal foundation for tourism in the Treaty . 
This was in contrast to the majority opinion held in the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism . 
Having heard many Members who share the view expressed in the opinion , this was a real relief . 
Unfortunately , his text has not survived the vote . 
It does , however , support my view that I am not , apparently , the only one who cannot agree with the majority opinion . 
This brings me to the content of the report . 
An important aspect of the tourism industry is employment and potential employment . 
Especially in the southern Member States , the tourist industry is a major source of income . 
From this vantage point , there is every reason for the government to formulate stimulating measures and a stimulating policy . 
The seasonal nature of tourism and the employment fluctuations that this entails also deserve attention . 
I am surprised , however , at the fact that many want to achieve this by means of Community policy . 
This is not desirable , either from the point of view of tourism itself or the stimulation of employment . 
The discrepancies between the different regions can often be traced back to cultural or historical factors . 
Within these regions , a huge range of problems have their part to play . 
It is obvious that mainly local and regional - and , therefore , to a lesser extent national - authorities are best placed to assess the situation and draft appropriate policy . 
For this reason , I cannot therefore endorse the transfer of powers to European level . 
In addition , employment policy in general is also a factor . 
Here too , the structure of the economy differs for each Member State , and the ways in which the current status has been achieved are diverse . 
It will not do for one type of policy , probably with many exceptions and adaptations , to be applied . 
This would mean that the EU would unjustly be removing tasks from Member States and that the Brussels bureaucracy would be intervening unnecessarily . 
It is preferable for Member States to take measures to stimulate employment themselves . 
Their expertise , is , of course , superior to that of the Commission . 
This is why I am very hesitant when it comes to formulating Community measures to promote employment . Even in the tourism industry . 
It would really be a nuisance if Parliament were to attempt to achieve this unofficially by extending its powers . 
Mr President , you will understand that we cannot assent to the present resolution as it stands . 
First of all I should like to thank Mr Viceconte for all the work that he has done on this report . 
It is a very extensive report . 
We greatly welcome it , just as we welcomed the original report that it was based on , the report of the high - level working group which was set up by the European Commission . 
I hope that the Commission will not forget that . 
Having set it up , I hope the Commission actually makes use of it and therefore does not just allow it to sit around in the corridors and gather dust . 
Tourism is basically small businesses and therefore a very fertile area for job creation . 
As has already been said in this debate , three million potential new jobs within the next ten years is something well worth going for . 
Europe can no longer refuse to give the recognition - both political and in terms of policy - making - that the fastest growing sector of its economy deserves because of its economic and social position . 
We need a more dynamic vision based on tourism ' s contribution to job creation . 
We must recognise a sector that is predominantly engaged in cross - border activity and therefore deserves a European policy with a stimulating , innovative and proactive approach to sustainable business development . 
I know the Commissioner is very keen on information technology . 
He has convinced me of that . 
But his portfolio of information technology and tourism actually go very well together . 
There are several reasons why the tourism industry is an ideal test - bed , therefore , for integrating job creation strategies . 
Let us look at some of these reasons . 
The importance to the economy of tourism and its growth potential is obviously one . 
Various sectors of the population are employed by the tourism industry , particularly the more vulnerable groups , such as young people , women and the unskilled . 
I am not saying that we do not need to raise the skills within the sector - of course we do - but let us get the jobs established first . 
The availability of unskilled , temporary and seasonal work is very important in some of the economic areas of the Community . 
Tourism contributes to regional development - in rural areas that are maybe trying to diversify - and tourism contributes to urban areas that aim to raise the profile of their own cultural heritage . 
If we take all these aspects together we have the potential of really doing something in Europe and maybe extending the tourism season by staggering holidays right across Europe . 
We must not lose sight of the fact that with enlargement we have the potential to increase the number of visitors who come to Europe ' s shores to see some of the traditional cultural heritage that has not been opened up to the world for quite a number of years - in fact , about forty years . 
We are losing market share . 
I believe we have to do something to make ourselves more competitive . 
I hope you will help us . 
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , today we are addressing a very important sector that directly involves over 10 million jobs in the European Union and helps the more or less disadvantaged , island and remote areas to stand on their own feet . 
And of course , tourism creates more jobs and contributes to the stimulation of employment , especially among society ' s more sensitive sections : women and young people . 
In view of all this , I think it is a serious contradiction that there is no European policy on tourism . 
The lack of any legal base makes it impossible to adopt measures relating to the sector . 
The occasional application of Article 308 - formerly Article 235 - which requires unanimity , has prevented the adoption of a programme even of only EUR 8 million for five years and 15 Member States . 
The measures taken from time to time in the past have been fragmentary and therefore ineffective , and such provisions as have been made were dictated by parallel policies such as consumer protection , environmental policy , transport policy , taxation policy , etc . , which very often are not only no help to tourism but on the contrary make it more difficult , since their introduction has usually entailed costs for the tourism industry without regard to its ability to bear them or its incentives to cope with them . 
With sorrow , I stress that in the context of restructuring the Commission ' s services , tourism is dealt with by a section , not even a directorate , within the Directorate - General for ' Enterprise '  . 
But we must support our tourism ! 
In our view , the axes which could create a basis for its support are : the addition of material capital for tourism in the new review which will also constitute a legal base for the sector , the framing of a Community tourism policy to support the sector without disturbing the operation of the tourism market , coordination of the tourism policy with other , parallel Community policies which affect it directly or indirectly , a study of the sector , and the adoption of medium and long - term measures to enhance the competitiveness of tourism as a product . 
Mr President , Commissioner , since the issue of employment has been raised , I want to recall another issue which is also very serious , namely the bankruptcies among Tour Operators and their consequences mainly for hotels , which are small or medium enterprises lacking the necessary organisation and access to information that would indicate to them whether or not their contractual partners are trustworthy . 
Clearly it is impossible to adopt measures at the national level . 
In contrast , at European level it would be possible to look into measures for improving the relations between hotels and Tour Operators , for example a regulation of such relations , the promotion of a special bankruptcy fund , etc . , in collaboration with representatives from the two branches . 
In the past , the Commission had requested quantitative records of the losses incurred by companies because of such bankruptcies , so that it could form an opinion , and asked the European confederations of hotel - and - restaurant owners and tourist agencies , HOTREC and ECTAA , to work out and draw up a regulation to govern the relations between them . 
Since then , however , there has been no progress . 
There must therefore be measures to improve the quality and competitiveness of Europe ' s tourism and , to the extent of the possible , safeguard the operation of companies . 
Such measures must also aim to promote rational use of natural and cultural assets and of the tourism infrastructure , so contributing to the balanced and sustainable development of tourism . 
I will end by congratulating Mr Viceconte and , as one who comes from Crete , a tourist area , I ask that we should always view tourism not only in terms of pleasant holidays but as a primary job creator in a Europe which needs those jobs . 
Mr President , Commissioner , the new attitude adopted recently by the Commission on this important economic activity is striking to those of us who , in recent years , have kept an eye on tourism and its place in the Community framework . 
We all know that this change of heart is basically due to the close cause - effect relationship between tourism and employment . It is also due to the recognition by the European Union , since the 1997 conference on these issues , of the enormous potential , represented by tourism , for employment . 
In this respect the Commission communication before us today is opportune , as is the report by Mr Viceconte whom I congratulate . 
This report contains 34 conclusions , including 15 calls to the Commission to adopt specific measures and actions without forgetting the environmental dimension and cultural protection , particularly in outermost and island regions . It also contains four calls to the Member States which highlight the need to coordinate actions with the regional authorities and the establishment of measures favourable to tourist - oriented SMEs , particularly in the tax sector and in access to financial instruments . 
These would encourage the growth of employment in sectors which use labour intensively , such as the tourist sector . 
Finally , once this legal basis to which many of us aspire has been established so that a common tourism policy can be developed , we must be realistic and prepare a strategy on tourism and its relationship with employment , as proposed by the Commission with the support of this House . In this strategy , young people and women , training and quality and the new information society must receive preferential attention . 
Mr President , Commissioner , I should like to start by thanking Mr Viceconte for his report , which has drawn our attention to a sector which is all too often underestimated . 
Tourism is a social , economic and cultural phenomenon which affects most European citizens , either as the recipients or the providers of a wide variety of services . 
Every year , nearly 200 million Europeans leave their homes for a short time in order to travel , usually to other countries in Europe . 
Moreover , Europe is still the main destination for tourists from third countries , even though it faces increasingly stiff competition and an increasingly diversified and attractive range of products . 
Since the Treaties contain no specific legal basis for a real Community tourism policy , the European Union must help to improve and encourage cooperation in this sector , in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity , in order to take practical advantage of the potential which tourism offers in terms of employment . 
Vocational training and a mobile workforce are important tools in the strategy to fight unemployment in Europe especially , as far as tourist service providers are concerned , in meeting multicultural demands and ensuring that services are tailored to customers . 
Employment in the tourism sector is often highly seasonal and precarious , thereby hampering its sustainable development . 
It is therefore even more urgent that we acquire and disseminate managerial and technological skills in order to promote new means of production and a supply of tourism which reflects market developments as closely as possible . 
As the report notes , the adoption by the Member States of tax incentives for SMEs in order to reduce labour costs would be an excellent way of promoting growth in employment in labour - intensive sectors and , consequently , in the tourism sector . 
This sector of activity is also a deciding factor in the economic and social development of less favoured regions , especially the most remote and island regions , which have undisputed assets in this area . 
Let us not forget that , in the most remote regions , tourism is the most important industry in terms of income . 
The income and employment generated by tourism help enormously in reducing imbalances and encouraging their economies to converge with the average rate of growth in the Community . 
In addition , tourism can promote a certain cultural and economic rapprochement , insofar as it makes us more aware of other European cultures and thus helps respect for European ways of life to develop . 
It goes without saying , therefore , that tourism , developed rationally in the long term , should represent a sustainable source of income for local economies , while safeguarding and enhancing the value of the rural , cultural , historical and environmental heritage . 
I should like to close by stressing the essential role which the European Union should play in promoting new forms of tourism in new places which will allow continental Europeans to discover the most far - flung destinations in Europe , namely the most remote regions . 
Mr President , we are having a major debate on a text of very little substance . 
The basic document is really no more than a Commission communication which embraces the conclusions and recommendations of a high level group on tourism and employment . 
Not only is there very little substance but this is also a rather old document dating from 28 April 1999 which therefore makes it nearly a year old . 
This document stems from the previous Commission . It is undoubtedly the result of work carried out by Commissioner Papoutsis throughout his term of office and which culminated in the Luxembourg summit and his failed Philoxenia programme . 
I believe this is the first debate in this House with the new Commission and a new Commissioner , Mr Liikanen , who is of course listening very closely to what we are discussing . 
I would take this opportunity to ask him a couple of questions directly . 
Firstly , the governments made a commitment at the Maastricht Conference of 1992 to include a legal basis for this issue in the Treaties . This commitment was not fulfilled in the Treaty of Amsterdam of 1997 and is therefore outstanding . 
Yet there is a Council resolution from last June on tourism and employment . What expectations does the Commissioner have that the new Intergovernmental Conference which is starting will include this aspect ? 
My second question is much more direct and perhaps more awkward . Bearing in mind the failed efforts of the last decade , as highlighted by Mr Koch , does Commissioner Liikanen believe that he can do something during his term of office to ensure that the Community dimension of tourism becomes a proper policy , given the importance that all the previous speakers have given to tourism in terms of employment ? 
Will the Commission present new initiatives in order to see whether , through the constant efforts of the Commission and Parliament , we can gradually convince the Council to do something on this issue ? 
Mr President , Commissioner , first of all I would like to congratulate the rapporteur , Mr Viceconte , who spoke at such length on the tangible possibility , for the fifteen Member States of the Union , of creating jobs by way of a sensible policy , a sensible European Union initiative in this field . 
This very afternoon we have had a debate on workers who suddenly find themselves unemployed . We now hope to be able to solve these problems . 
Tourism is an activity that falls decidedly and fundamentally within the competence of the European Union . 
All the European States are known throughout the world for being tourist magnets envied by all , including the United States of America , which we spoke about this afternoon with regard to the native Americans . 
I would like to stress one point in the Viceconte report which I welcome and particularly support , and which I would like the House and the Commission to reflect on before giving a favourable response . 
It regards tourism for senior citizens . 
I usually see Commissioner Diamantopoulou desperately tearing her hair out , bit by bit , because the elderly live too long , leading to problems with pension payments . 
However , in this case , the fact that we are living longer means that there are more senior citizens . Unfortunately not all , but many of them travel the world to see its marvels and to discover and learn more about it : Italians want to see what the English are like , the Greeks want to see what the Turks are like and the French want to see their Italian cousins . 
Tourism brings the peoples of the fifteen States and of the entire world closer together , and of course , it leads to peace and understanding . 
This kind of tourism , which is undertaken mainly by large numbers of senior citizens , is just as important . 
This type of tourism must be promoted and supported because it allows people to work in tourist destinations , not just during the summer when we go swimming in the sea , for example , but also during winter when we go to take the air . 
Senior citizens are always on holiday , all year round , from 1 January through to 31 December because they do not work and do not have just one month off during the year . 
Unfortunately , this is not true of them all , but this is why I am calling on the Commission to follow up on the Viceconte report . 
Thank you , Commissioner . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a . m . 
 ( The sitting was closed at 7 . 40 p . m . ) 
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
The Minutes of yesterday ' s sitting have been distributed . 
Are there any comments ? 
Mr President , yesterday ' s Minutes will naturally indicate interventions referring to the so - called ' Strasbourg Declaration " which intends to implicate the European Parliament in certain considerations which would literally lead to the conclusion that I am a Nazi . 
This declaration - which , as I have said , implicates the European Parliament , although no such declaration was put before this Parliament - is a completely unacceptable form of manipulation . 
I thank the President , Mrs Fontaine , who just yesterday expressed her opinion by refuting the implication of this House . 
Mr President , as well as discrediting the PNV , Eusko Alkartasuna and the democratic government of the Basque Country - who have the kind of attitude which , in the case of Ireland , deserved the Nobel prize - by calling them Nazis , the declaration insults representatives of the European citizens - as in my case : I represent a section of Galician society - by saying that we are more dangerous than the Nazis , and insults groups which are clearly democratic , with decades of history , in an unacceptable and crazy way , which I would like to condemn here and now . 
I would like these words to be heard , because the European Parliament cannot be implicated in this way in a crazy declaration which I consider to be totally unacceptable . 
Thank you , Mr Nogueira , for your explanation . 
I would remind you that questions on the Minutes should refer to the Minutes . 
In any event , for those Members who not aware of the President ' s position , I will read the official communication and it will thereby appear in today ' s Minutes : 
 " On 17 February , Mrs Nicole Fontaine , President of the European Parliament , received as guests , at their request , the representatives of the Forum d ' Ermua . 
The Spanish Vice - Presidents of the European Parliament were represented . 
Following this interview , the representatives of this Forum presented her with a text entitled " Strasbourg Declaration "  . The President wishes to specify that under no circumstances does she sanction the terms of this " declaration "  . 
Strasbourg , 17 February "  . 
I therefore believe that the issue is totally cleared up . 
Mr President , I would like to request a correction to the Minutes regarding the vote on Amendment No 5 of the Swoboda report . 
Please note that Mr Michel Raymond , Mr Jean Saint - Josse and I voted against this amendment . 
We take note and this will appear in the Minutes . 
Mr President , this is not exactly a point of order but concerns a communication we have before us today , namely that the Conference of Presidents open to Members , which was scheduled for 23 February , has now been cancelled . 
We should consider on principle whether there is any point at all in holding these kinds of meetings . 
I have the feeling they are just another compulsory exercise we have to perform . 
We can just as easily find out what happened from the newspapers . That would be more productive and I do not like seeing the various committee agendas that are already overloaded being cut again and again because of this kind of show - piece . 
So I think we should consider simply abolishing these meetings once and for all . 
Mr Bösch , I take note of your observation but , clearly , we hold this type of Conference of Presidents , open to all MEPs at the original request of the MEPs , so that they may participate in some of them . 
Surely we should be more selective . 
In any event , the Bureau will consider your suggestion . 
 ( The Minutes were approved ) 
VOTE
Mr President , we should like to request that the last sentence of Amendment No 2 which reads :  ' also calls on the Member States to promote tourism for the elderly ' be incorporated into Paragraph 25 , which deals specifically with social tourism , after :  ' tourism for organised social groups . . . ' . 
We think its inclusion there would be both more appropriate and more effective . 
Mr President , the subsidiarity principle is one of the fundamental principles underlying cooperation in the European Union . 
It is high time it was properly evaluated and that a system was set up which clearly identifies the EU ' s areas of competence . 
A criticism which is often levelled at the EU and which , to some extent , is justified is that it is involved in far too many areas . 
One such area is tourism which , by its very nature , is very much a national concern . 
In so far as tourism falls within the political domain , it should be at national , regional and local level . 
Tourism is a major source of employment and has a role to play as regards the EU ' s financial support for less well - off regions . 
Even in that respect , any cooperation should , however , be carried out according to the subsidiarity principle . 
Because tourism can also have a harmful impact on the environment , there needs to be a strategy for damage limitation . 
However , such a strategy should come within the framework of environmental policy . 
The report laments the lack of a legal basis for a policy on tourism . 
However , the Swedish Christian Democrats would oppose any such development as we believe that tourism is a matter with which the European Union should only be marginally concerned . 
 .  ( DA ) Tourism is a significant source of international understanding and an important part of the labour market , which ought to be promoted and encouraged . 
It is of inestimable importance that people in Europe , as well as in the rest of the world , should have the opportunity to experience each other ' s ways of ordering their lives and their societies . 
Policy on tourism is not , however , something which ought to be planned and decided upon by the European Parliament or by the EU as a whole . 
I am therefore voting against the proposal . 
Mr President , before we begin our discussion , as an Italian MEP - and I believe I also speak on behalf of all Italian MEPs - I should like to condemn the position taken yesterday by the German Chancellor , who interfered in Italian internal affairs , when he threatened that Europe would intervene if any neo - fascists became members of the government . 
Fortunately , the Italian Government and the President of the Republic intervened , and today the Italian Ambassador to Germany will also speak on the subject , to call on the German Chancellor not to interfere in Italian internal affairs , in so far as there are no neo - fascist candidates for government office . 
We would like to thank the President of the Republic , as well as the Government and all the politicians who spoke and we too , in this House , would also call on the German Chancellor not to intervene in Italian internal affairs . 
Mr Tajani will accept that it is a little difficult to understand the relationship between his intervention and the points of order , but I understand his political meaning . 
We will proceed to the debate itself and Mr Monti will take the floor on behalf of the Commission . 
European postal services
The next item is the debate on the oral question ( B5 - 0010 / 2000 ) tabled by Mr Hatzidakis , on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , to the Commission , on European postal services . 
Mr President , the postal sector continues to be an area in which old , outdated monopolies are allowed to operate regardless of the requirements of competition . 
And , in the absence of any energetic action by the Commission , the situation has gone on for far too long . 
The EU ' s competition authority has intervened in all other areas , but not in the postal sector . 
We have now been waiting in vain for 18 months for the Commission to put forward proposals , so I should be grateful if the Commissioner could let me know today when we are likely to have a new , modern Europe - wide postal system . 
One of the EU ' s most important tenets is the need for a common internal market . 
We are currently working hard to enlarge this to include ever more Member States . 
That requires greater efficiency which , in turn , is dependent on competition . 
Today , one area after another is being compelled to introduce deregulation and liberalisation , an exercise in which the EU often leads the way , while the Commission ' s determination to make progress serves as a model . 
The Commission is committed to liberalisation because experience has shown that the old monopolies are unable to provide the efficient service which a modern society expects . 
It is also because liberalisation is necessary in order to be able to keep up with technological advances and , moreover , because it will lead to lower prices . All that , we are assured , will be more easily attained in a free and competitive market . 
It has been done in a number of different areas but , unfortunately , the postal sector has remained the one major exception until now . 
It can hardly be because customers are satisfied . 
We are all familiar with the much - criticised price hikes , and delayed deliveries are a constant topic of discussion . 
If we really want a functioning internal market , we cannot go on constantly making an exception of the postal services . 
A number of countries have been in the forefront of introducing more competitive postal services . The Netherlands , Finland and Sweden have travelled furthest along this road . 
During the 1990s , they were able to show the benefits that could be achieved . 
Moreover , Sweden has introduced the changes gradually in a climate of political consensus . 
The process should be allowed to continue and be given the necessary encouragement . 
Experience has shown that the old monopolies cannot provide the type of efficient service which , as customers , we are all entitled to expect . 
Prior to this discussion , a letter was sent out by supporters of the old monopolies . 
They hold up Sweden as a warning , which might be appropriate in certain instances , but not as regards postal services . 
It is alleged in a circular that the price of postage has gone up by 59 per cent since liberalisation in 1993 . 
That is true as long as account is taken of the 20 per cent of the total postal services market where , in practice , there is still a monopoly , that is where the state is the only player . 
However , for the 80 per cent of services where there is a competitive market , prices have fallen . 
That shows that competition really is working . 
My conclusion is therefore : make sure that there is competition in the remaining 20 per cent of the market , too . 
It is against just such a background that more and more people are calling for . . . 
 ( The speaker is interrupted by Mr Markov ) I thought I had the floor . 
Perhaps we can discuss this later on . 
However , I should like to affirm that it is exactly as I said , namely , that prices have fallen in areas where there is competition , whereas they have risen where there is still a monopoly . 
That is usually the case . 
That is why I should now like to see a Commission that takes the necessary initiatives and sees to it that there is effective competition in the postal sector . 
Mr Markov , in five or six minutes time , you will be allowed a few minutes to speak . 
I would be grateful if you would not interrupt other Members . 
Mr President , there is a mystery . 
What happened to the Postal Services Directive that was passed on 15 December 1997 ? 
There has been a deafening silence from the Commission during the period between then and now . 
I am sorry it is Commissioner Monti who is here today . 
I am very fond of him . 
He is one of the more diligent and hard working commissioners . 
It is a pity I cannot say the same for some of his other colleagues . 
There has , over this period , been no real progress on the Postal Services Directive . 
Commissioner Monti stated that part of the reason for this was the organisation and reallocation of duties . 
That has only happened recently . 
For over a year the old Commission could have done some work on this . 
We really have not progressed very far . 
However , since Commissioner Monti is here , I would like him to take a message back to Commissioner Bolkestein telling him what the Postal Services Directive was about . 
It was about gradual liberalisation ; it was about a guaranteed universal service at an affordable price ; it was about direct mail and cross - border mail remaining in the reserved sector . 
These issues were fundamental in that report and they should be fundamental in any forthcoming directive . 
The postal service is not just for Christmas . 
It is for life . 
In the area in Scotland I come from it is much more than just a postal service . 
It is about keeping communities together . 
The postal service is also the bus service . 
The postal service is also the social service . 
The postal service is also the doctor . 
If we allow the postal services to drift into complete privatisation then we will lose all that and many of our local communities - we were voting earlier on tourism - will lose their tourist trade . 
We will cut them off . 
The postal services are important . 
That message must be taken back from here today . 
The Commission must listen to it . 
Mr President , we are in favour of liberalising the Union ' s postal services . 
This should first of all stand for better service . 
This is the intention and it must be the ultimate goal . 
Liberalisation began because there was doubt regarding the structure of the postal services and the value of a monopoly . 
Is a monopoly flexible enough in a market where the customer ' s requirements and the market situation can change very rapidly , because , for example , the use of electronic data carriers has increased dramatically ? 
The question is , therefore : what are the demands that a monopoly or part of a service which is governed by a monopoly needs to meet ? 
Most Member States have been putting the brakes on , and I am pleased to note that , in my country , the new government has at long last completed something which should have been done a long time ago , and that the Belgian postal services and the Belgian government are now taking measures to ensure that the postal services are ready - at least partly ready - by 2003 to be able to stand up to the competition . 
As you can see , as a new MEP , I am trying to get to grips with the dossier and I must admit that I have great difficulty doing so . 
I have found a number of studies which were commissioned by the European Commission at the time , and I am also coming across documents from Post - Europe which claims that these studies are inaccurate and that the basis on which these were carried out is incorrect . 
I think that the Commission could have been more pro - active on this score and could have also provided us with the studies which it had promised to give us and which we had requested . 
As far as I know , that has still not happened . 
I would therefore ask you , Commissioner , to help me in my task as a new Member . 
Like Mr Miller , I would welcome an explanation from you regarding the implementation of the 1997 directive within the next couple of months or weeks or , if at all possible , within the next couple of days . 
My second point concerns the universal provision of services . What is happening on this score , how much does it cost , how does it work , how do you intend to organise it and what proposals do you have ? 
I would welcome more concrete information on this . 
Apparently , the postal service is a very strong lobby and rightly so . 
There are hundreds of thousands of people who earn their living at the Post Office . 
Moreover - and Mr Miller has already pointed this out - it will surely not be the end of the world if the postman no longer comes round , even in my country , however densely populated it may be . 
But in Belgium too , there are a great number of people , older people for example , who only see one other person in the day and that is the postman . 
We should not overlook this fact : postal service is about more than just ferrying around letters and parcels . 
The postal service is also extremely important to companies . 
A study has shown that 90 % of the postal traffic is between companies and only 10 % between individuals . 
What exactly do you intend to liberalise ? 
I would like more information on this , because the key question is how you can better serve the customer using the existing services . 
There are postal companies which have a monopoly and are doing a reasonably good job . 
We need to protect this type of arrangement and denounce other things . 
Mr President , Commissioner , this morning on French national radio , I heard that liberalisation of the French postal service was now only a matter of days or hours away and that it was irreparable , like the developments with our neighbours in Sweden , the Netherlands and Germany . 
This concerns us deeply and that is why we requested this debate today . 
The Commission is committed to a universal postal service , as the European Parliament has shown on several occasions , the postal service is actually , as some speakers have already mentioned , a key factor in social and territorial cohesion . 
In this connection I should like to ask one of our Swedish MEPs for an opinion of the study which has been carried out and which shows that in fact in the most remote areas of Sweden the postal service was rather poor in terms of distribution . 
That is not the sort of postal service that we want . 
The economic value of the postal service was recognised by the Treaty of Amsterdam and we consider that it goes far beyond the distribution of mail . 
It is the service which remains closest to the citizens and which we call a ' public service '  , which makes it possible for everyone resident within European territory to receive the service , and this entitlement must remain an acquired right , an acquis communautaire . 
The matter of the European Union ' s recognition of a high - quality postal service , available to all , remains valid today , and we are increasingly concerned . 
That is why today we are asking not to have any nasty surprises in the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism come Monday . 
Let us point out that Parliament ' s positions were clearly defined and that the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance supported them . 
This resolution of 14 January 1999 required that , prior to undertaking any liberalisation of this key sector , involving 1 . 7 million employees after all , the Commission should provide impact studies for this liberalisation . 
Well , we are not convinced that the studies currently available make it possible to implement this liberalisation right now and we are concerned because it is well known that liberalisation without impact studies would cause thousands of job losses , something we certainly do not want . 
We value our public service , our universal postal service , because we know , and here too we are acting as representatives of the citizens , that the citizens value this service and the Commission undertook , during Mr Bolkestein ' s hearing , to maintain this universal service throughout the European Union . 
I shall not repeat all the various statements he made at his hearing , I think we all still remember them . 
We further maintain that we are waiting for this proper evaluation before any definitive decision , as stipulated in the directive and the revision of the 1997 directive . 
We shall not accept a date for the liberalisation of all activities in the postal sector until the Commission has offered us a guarantee that the universal service will be integrated into this directive and that the public postal service will be maintained in the States which consider this service essential to the citizen . 
Mr President , I share the view that we need to make more progress from the point of view of efficiency and the analysis of the cost - effectiveness of the services offered . 
But as an entrepreneur myself , I really cannot understand why it is always assumed this can only be done under the headings of " privatisation " and " liberalisation " ! 
Or perhaps people are not concerned with creating the same conditions of access to the postal services for all , but are thinking only of the capital employment conditions for companies in large conglomerations . 
Members should however represent all the citizens , which means it is their duty to think not in terms of business management but in terms of the national economy . 
In practice that means the following for the postal services : firstly , priority must be given to employment . 
I have nothing against liberalisation and privatisation , but the premises must be right . 
Secondly , we must guarantee that the citizens are not faced with reduced postal services . 
Examples in Germany and Sweden show that this certainly is a risk . 
Mr Stenmarck , Sweden is the only country in which prices rose far higher after liberalisation than in all the other Member States of the European Union . 
So that is another potential effect and one that we must prevent . 
Thirdly , it is vital to have , first of all , a universal postal service at an affordable price for all citizens , wherever they may be ; secondly , to have a uniform price for all Member States ; and thirdly , to have daily mail deliveries and collections on working days . 
On the question of the cost - effectiveness of the various postage weights , it is worth considering further price cuts ; but that is what the postal administration itself is saying . 
We do not have to adhere to a weight of over 300g when the analysis shows that we need to ensure a minimum weight of 150g to make it at all worthwhile . 
In that respect I believe it was right and important to hold this debate today , to make Mr Bolkestein aware of Parliament ' s position and allow him to take certain aspects into account from the outset . 
Mr President , we are currently in the first phase of transposition of Directive 97 / 67 / CE on postal services and I am terribly afraid that a new phase of liberalisation might be reflected in a significant reduction in the public service offered . 
During Mr Bolkestein ' s hearing , my colleague Véronique Mathieu asked for an undertaking " that any new proposals , once these are known , should be the subject of impact studies to determine the implications of this liberalisation programme before these provisions are adopted . " 
What has become of it ? 
Do we have the results of this impact study ? 
As you know , we members of the EDD Group , are in favour , along with others , of rural life , maintaining employment , and social cohesion in rural areas , a cohesion reinforced by high quality universal public service . 
Most assuredly I would like to be able to say that the examples I observe every day in my own country and in my own region , a very rural one , convince me that we can safely proceed to a new phase of liberalisation . 
Unfortunately , this is not the case and currently , by merging the start of the application of the European directive and the application of the 35 - hour law , which is purely French , but also by changing the working time criteria , such as the 1 700 objects per hour to be handled per workstation as opposed to 1 400 , as previously , in our rural areas we can observe either a reduction in public opening hours or a threat that some post offices will be closed . 
This is already an intolerable withdrawal of the public service . 
I have here the local paper for my municipality , which reads ,  " The manager of the post office wishes to inform the local population that as of 3 January 2000 "  - you can see how topical this is -  " the last collection will take place at 3 . 45 p . m . instead of at 4 . 30 p . m . as at present . " 
So you can appreciate why I am afraid of a phase of extensive liberalisation , and a package of measures which will entail a new wave of depopulation . 
As you know , in our country , each village has its own local post office or at least a post box , with a collection every day . 
The postman is not just a simple mail distribution operative but also the only social link with the local residents . So he delivers money too , and sometimes even medicines , thus making it possible for isolated elderly people to be supported in living at home . 
If postal services are liberalised in a poorly regulated way , more post offices will be closed , in the name of this infamous profitability , which is often the cause of rural regression . 
Once again , Europe is distancing itself from its poorest and most vulnerable inhabitants . 
They will be told that they are too expensive , without drawing any comparison with other social services such as police and health services but also sports and cultural services , where lack of profitability is scarcely admitted in urban areas . 
Everyone is free to choose their lifestyle . They should be able to do so without compromising their equal opportunities and equal treatment . 
In sport the saying goes ,  " Do not change a winning team . " 
Why should we wish to change a system which is satisfactory ? 
The universal service will be able to fulfil its social mission only if it retains an area of monopoly enabling it to balance its budget . 
We cannot afford to make a mistake , for we know for a fact that we shall not be able to turn the clock back and that in the event of an imbalance , the firm will know how to tackle it : jobs will be lost , services will be reduced , the dead wood will be removed and we already know which areas will be considered dead wood . 
We are told we should change the limit from 350 grammes to 150 grammes , or even 50 grammes . 
So be it . But the 200 grammes that make up the difference will be seized upon by many private and therefore profitable bodies . 
So , once again , why not leave things as they are and allow the public service to fund itself and to guarantee the annual excess cost of its operations in the public interest , valued in France , by Senator Larcher , as it happens , at FF 8 billion ? 
If revenue is lost , then public interest operations will be revised and cut , and again it is in rural areas that the most swingeing cuts will be made . 
What we should do now , I feel , is wait , particularly until we know the economic and social impact of one phase of liberalisation before taking the risk of destabilising an entire section of our universal public service , which many of our fellow citizens still value highly . 
Mr President , I am one of those who agree that it is appropriate that this particular service should be regulated at European level . 
If people are to be free to provide services across borders it is only fair and reasonable that we should have European regulations to govern it . 
In Ireland some services are provided by companies from outside Ireland , for example , English companies certainly operate there . 
But this directive has never been transposed into national law . 
It is the job of the Commission to ensure that national governments take account of their legal obligations under European law and transpose European directives . 
That has not been done in Ireland although a certain liberalisation has taken place and has not been impeded by the national government . 
A small segment of our market has been taken over by private operators . 
But the need for common legislation is underlined by the fact that in the Netherlands they have liberalised , in Germany they have not , yet German companies which enjoy the protection of national law seek to take market share in the Netherlands . 
This is another example of the importance of moving forward with common legislation and ensuring that it is put into effect throughout the Union . 
I come from a rural area . 
I support the principle of liberalising and the right of everybody to compete and I recognise the benefits that common regulation and liberalisation has brought over the years . 
For example it has enabled us to fly from peripheral parts of the European Union to the centre for a fraction of the cost of 20 years ago . 
I remember when people came into this House lobbying us in the national interest not to allow this liberalisation . 
We allowed it and the result is that our young people can travel and broaden their education . 
Our older people , even though on social welfare , can enjoy the benefits of travel . 
So liberalisation has taken a lot of parasites off our back in many areas and enabled many people to enjoy higher standards of living . 
On the other hand this is not a free market without limits and if you come from a rural area you recognise that some services in the free market situation cannot and will not be provided . 
So , the Commission , in bringing forward their new proposals , must remember those sparsely populated rural areas and not put anything in this legislation which will deprive those areas of the opportunities of having those services . 
In rural areas , for many years , even before the Irish Free State came into existence , we sometimes had this service of a post office . 
Today , it is probably the only public service in many remote areas and people are concerned that European legislation will eventually make it difficult to maintain it . 
I want to underline the fact that the existing legislation protects rather than threatens the right of every citizen in every remote area to have this service . 
But complaints are made by private individuals about social welfare being paid in the post offices in Ireland . 
I want the Commission to recognise that this is a necessary social service . 
It should go hand in hand with our postal services in rural areas . 
We must implement what the directive insists on , that the postal service is available to everybody . 
Mr President , Commissioner , besides the fact that the postal services doubtless play an extremely important part in providing employment , they are very helpful in the effort to achieve the cohesion we all want so much and which is a basic reason for the European Union ' s existence . 
As is known , the Commission should already , before the end of 1998 , have tabled new proposals for a revision of the Postal Services Directive 97 / 67 , guaranteeing the continued provision of a universal service , securing its economic viability , and regulating the gradual liberalisation of the postal services market while taking into account the consequences of this for all those involved , including postal workers and customers . 
To that end , the Commission has commissioned studies on the cost of universal services , the consequences of liberalising cross - border mail and direct mail , the consequences of reducing weight and cost limits in the reserved sector , the consequences of liberalising the other phases of the postal process , excluding distribution , and an overall appraisal of the results of those studies . 
Mr President , we are therefore wondering , and we ask the Commission - although , of course , Mr Bolkestein is not here , but Mr Monti is a man of many parts and I think he may have a view on this : should those studies not examine the economic and social impact of the various liberalisation scenarios envisaged on each , and I repeat , on each one of the European Union ' s Member States ? 
The postal services in Greece , Great Britain , the Netherlands or Belgium are , of course , all different . 
With liberalisation , how will it be possible for the universal postal service to be funded and to operate correctly in a country such as my own , Greece , with its particular geographical features and its numerous , small but inhabited islands ? 
How can a universal service provider in my country survive with the liberalisation of cross - border mail which amounts to approximately 25 % , as opposed to less than 5 % in other countries ? 
How are we to deal with the transfer of the national post office ' s business abroad ? 
We have just heard Mr McCartin on the subject . 
It will most certainly be necessary , we say , because of the technological developments that simplify this transfer and thereby make it more profitable , to determine the further gradual and controlled liberalisation by setting weight and price limits . 
But what will those limits be ? 
Are we naively to grant ' freelance ' enterprises the right to operate selectively and therefore circumvent the weight limit very easily since the content of letters cannot , of course , be checked ? 
In any event , we ask the Commission to lay its cards on the table and put forward its proposals , having examined the ultimate foreseeable development of the matter from every aspect and for all the Member States . 
It is self - evident that liberalisation is not an end in itself , but only a means towards improving services . 
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the planned liberalisation of the traditional national postal services raises the inevitable question as to what the postal services will consider their core business to be in the future . 
In other words , what will the postal services be prepared to do themselves , what will they want to do together in international cooperation and what will they no longer provide ? This question should be answered in light of the fact that the age - old monopoly has de facto been undermined by all kinds of courier companies and by technological developments , such as fax and e - mail . 
But then again , the central theme of the liberalisation of the postal services is employment . 
Past experiences have sufficiently shown that early retirement schemes and voluntary redundancy schemes often have an undesired effect . 
I would remind you of the fact that the Belgian telephone company had to recall employees who had been sent into retirement in order to prevent too much know - how and expertise from disappearing from the company . 
Once again , the point of discussion in the liberalisation of the postal services will no doubt be a reduction in the workforce . 
One should , however , be very aware of the fact that if people are encouraged to apply for voluntary redundancy , the company will primarily lose those people who already work under pressure or who can easily find employment elsewhere , in other words , they are often the people which the company in question needs . 
In my opinion , it would be a sign of well - thought - out human resource management if the Commission were to share a number of these concerns , so as to ensure that a sensitive sector such as the postal service is liberalised with minimum impact on social conditions . 
Mr President , postal services and post offices seem to be very topical in Parliament at the moment and rightly so , given their importance . 
Only last week , in the UK parliament at Westminster the newly - elected MP from our European Free Alliance partners , Plaid Cymru , the party of Wales , made his maiden speech on that subject . 
The Scottish parliament too recently had a debate with particular reference to the role which post offices , especially in rural areas , play in service provision and the sustainability of rural communities . 
Liberalisation is not the only potential threat to post office services . 
Post office outlets in Scotland , as we have heard , handle much more than just mail delivery . 
Traditionally they have been used by governments and some local authorities as an agency for the payment of state pensions and other benefits as well as a local collection centre for house rents , local taxes and so on . 
But as the modernisation of public financial systems leads to more and more electronic cash movements straight to and from bank accounts , so the viability of rural post offices is being threatened . 
If a rural post office closes , usually with the only local shop attached , then a major threat to community sustainability and to social inclusion can result . 
Instead of allowing post office outlets to be undermined by liberalisation or by the modernisation of systems , governments , and the Commission too , should be encouraging and supporting the extensive network of post office outlets and viewing these as an asset which can be built upon , providing public information and services from a location which is convenient for residents . 
Mr President , the task of the post office is to ensure that , every day , the post is delivered everywhere , be it in the city or in remote , rural areas , at the same tariff . 
For 150 years , the postal services have been a public affair and , as such , just like public transport and the power supply , a core task of the national governments . 
Such recognisable and useful core tasks give the electorate a reason to vote . 
They are much less interested in a government which takes no interest in these affairs . 
I once heard a Christian Democratic politician make the following comment in a Dutch village :  " The postal service belongs to us all ; taking it away from us is tantamount to theft "  . 
The existing postal companies no longer fall under democratic control and room is being made for competitors . 
The newcomers are only interested in those parts of the work that generate high profits at low cost and low prices . 
They can be the cheapest for a while only by means of a drop in quality for their customers and employees . 
Such companies have always been around , but they used to be banned , whereas these days they are being heralded as progress . 
The end result will be that existing companies will also be forced into bad practices . 
They will get their workforce to do more work at lower wages . 
They will often do fewer home deliveries , charge more for retaining post during the holidays , close down a large number of the post office branches and , ultimately , the tariffs for the individual will sharply increase , at which point the only parties which will stand to benefit from this type of practice will be companies which conclude collective agreements at a lower tariff . 
It is time we stopped this trend . 
A fault confessed is half redressed . 
We are better off with one democratically controlled monopoly than the waste and chaos brought on by competition which cannot be controlled . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , people used to be summoned to demonstrations by letter or telegram ; nowadays this is done by e - mail and via websites ! 
Incidentally , many thanks to Mr Scharping , the Chairman of the European Social Democrats , for withdrawing the call to take part in demonstrations in Austria from his homepage and therefore not advising anarchists in favour of violent action to go to Vienna tomorrow . 
It is clear that electronic mail , electronic commerce is going to become extremely important in the future . 
I also see this as offering special potential for the existing postal service . 
We know that until the year 2002 it will not be possible to fill some 1 . 2 million jobs in the field of electronic commerce because we do not have the skilled workers needed for this market . 
I believe that this opens up very extensive employment potential in the postal administration in particular , which can prepare its existing staff for this very interesting challenge by means of training and further training measures . 
Of course the existing rural post offices also have a strategic advantage , because they are so densely distributed throughout Europe . 
Even the tiniest village has a post office and in future e - commerce will make far more use of the post because many people will order goods by e - mail and through websites and also send bills and so forth by that means . 
That is why the physical handling of these transactions will also become increasingly important . 
The collection , sorting , transportation and delivery of mail will take on an entirely new dimension . 
I believe that in future we must seize this opportunity . 
As politicians we must devote special attention to defending consumer interests . 
We want our consumers to obtain as much as possible for the wages they are paid . 
That faces us with the very important challenge of offering the consumers cheaper postal services . 
We should take a look - thinking also of benchmarking - at what the consumer currently pays for an employee in the existing postal services and what he pays for an employee in the private sector . 
This transparency is also very important for the unions , for how can a union official who has to represent his members in a private company compete with a union official who has to represent his members in the postal service ? 
I think it is important for the unions too to operate under uniform economic and social framework conditions so as to achieve the best results for their members on a basis of justice , fairness and solidarity . 
But I also believe that in future we will have to make the universal service sufficiently attractive . 
We should define the universal service precisely , establish efficiency criteria and then issue invitations to tender . 
In rural areas where we have real fears that these services really can no longer be cost - effective , I believe the decision should be taken by a regulator who can lay down fair and decent tendering conditions , so that all the market forces , and of course the existing postal services too , can compete here and so that we can pursue the best and most efficient consumer strategies . 
I believe we must avoid further subsidies and should try to ensure that the private supplier and the consumer benefit from the new system . 
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , postal services , just like any European public service , contribute to the social cohesion of Community territory under the terms of Article 16 of the Treaty of Amsterdam . 
By equalising tariffs , i . e . treating citizens and economic operators on a basis of strict equality with regard to the cost of the service , by meeting the obligation to provide a universal service , while complying with the requirement for quality of service , postal services reflect the concern which we must have to ensure equality between different regions and the people resident in them . 
They also play a major role in maintaining links between people . 
As has been pointed out here on many occasions , is the postman not in fact the last point of contact in depopulated districts or divided communities , whether these are areas that are isolated geographically or the problem districts in our towns and cities ? 
Let me cite the example of the initiative of the French postal service , which decided , for instance , to make interpreters and writers available to the public in post offices in problem urban areas . 
Without even mentioning the jobs in related sectors , European public postal services today employ one and a half million operatives whose futures are clearly threatened by the spectre of radical , untrammelled liberalisation . 
The European Parliament was confident of reconciling openness to competition with the obligation to provide a universal service in a manner which safeguards jobs . 
We may congratulate ourselves on this , but we intend that this should continue and this is the reason why one can only deplore the fact that the European Parliament is today being excluded from the main decision - making process which will determine the fate of the postal sector in Europe . 
Indeed it is regrettable that to date - as the resolution we are debating points out - the Commission has not taken account of the resolution of 14 January 1999 . 
That resolution called for the European Parliament to be involved in drawing up the planned measures and urged that the reliability of impact studies regarding liberalisation should be improved . 
These impact studies are necessary in order to assess the effects of any untrammelled liberalisation , not just on the economic organisation of the market , but also in terms of its human and social aspects . 
The delays in the Commission ' s work will inevitably have a knock - on effect on the proposed timetable and the deadline of 2003 must certainly be called into question . 
By defining a sector reserved for public postal services , on the basis of weight and price limits , the postal service directive would clear the way for controlled liberalisation in phases . 
The sudden reduction of these limits poses a threat to the balance between the obligation to provide a public service and economic viability for postal services . 
Against a background of globalisation , where the rationale of profitability and profit is coming increasingly into conflict with the wish to achieve both a balance between regions and social cohesion , we must here , as a matter of urgency , reiterate our commitment to European public service , whether it be , today , the postal service or , tomorrow , the rail service or , the day after that , the health service . 
Mr President , I rise as other Scottish Members of this House , representatives of Scotland , to protest against anything that lead to a decline in the quality of rural life in remote parts . 
The postal service and the post office are a vital feature of life in rural communities throughout Europe and not least in Scotland . 
It would be a disaster if action were deliberately , or even inadvertently , taken which had the effect of damaging that . 
I do not believe that it is anybody ' s intention to do so . 
I do not believe that the Commission has set out to make war upon the islands of Scotland or Greece . 
But they might accidentally do great damage . 
The point is to determine at what speed and by what methods the gradual liberalisation of the postal services should take place . 
If too low a limit were set for the continuing monopoly right of the postal service , it would become uneconomical to maintain in the outlying areas universality of service at what would remain an affordable rate . 
The critical thing is to balance universality and affordability . 
The message that is coming very clearly from all sides of the House to the Commission today is that the Commission should tread warily . 
The Commission should not , for example , take a stepwise jump from 350 grammes to , as some have suggested , as low as 50 grammes . 
On the contrary , it should proceed cautiously . 
I imagine anything less than 150 grammes would be extremely unwise in these circumstances . 
The solidarity and cohesion of people all over Europe depend on the thought that you can post a letter anywhere and it will be delivered anywhere else , at an affordable stamp price . 
Stand by universality and affordability ! 
Mr President , the only way to guarantee a high - quality universal postal service is to keep this as a public service . 
A universal service offering high - quality postal services at affordable prices throughout the country forms the basis for the operation of the whole postal system and must lead to a uniform nationwide tariff . 
This service must therefore be kept public . 
This is the only way to guarantee that the network , from collection to distribution , will be a comprehensive network which cannot be broken up or used only in part and according to the convenience of postal service operators . 
However , further to the directive on common rules for Community postal services , the Commission has undertaken studies which have not been forwarded to the European Parliament . We are therefore unaware of the impacts of the directive ' s application on either the level of service provided to the people or the current European postal operators in terms of both economics and employment . 
In our opinion , the whole process of applying this directive must therefore be halted , including its timetable . 
Any change to the current situation must be preceded by a rigorous study of its various implications , with the objective always being to guarantee a high - quality public service and to retain the current public operators and existing jobs . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I want to support this proposal on principle while asking right at the outset whether the previous speaker ' s statement that on the one hand we need an innovative and highly effective and competitive service while on the other hand this service should be a public service , is not a contradiction in terms . 
I think ours is a different approach ! 
European policy has liberalised monopoly markets - energy , telecommunications and air transport - and the target , the focus , was always the consumer . 
The aim was simply to offer a better service and also to put the emphasis on the user in liberalising the postal services . 
I think the consumer can decide for himself and define in advance what he needs . 
He does not need a government to do so , or a parliament , nor does he need a Commission to do so ! 
The postal market is limping along behind and , sadly , we have wasted valuable time here . 
I believe we should give the postal service a chance to adapt to new trends . 
I am thinking here of the very sound words of Mr Rübig , who also talked about e - commerce . 
That will develop very quickly and present the various undertakings in our society with new challenges ; we will have to adapt very flexibly and rapidly to these challenges . 
I believe a liberalised market will speed up this process more than a less liberalised market . 
It also offers some prospect of conveying a positive picture of European policy . 
We should seize that opportunity , for the citizen keeps asking , why do we have Europe ? 
These are areas where the citizen can see and understand the benefit of Europe . 
I am glad Mr Monti , the Commissioner for competition , is here today in person , for he is pursuing an excellent policy . 
And here I want to turn to an area where in my view - and this is a point also made in this debate - Parliament and the Commission must consider where to draw limits to competition . 
We are in favour of competition as a component of the social market economy , and of course we are also in favour of it because we want this economic system to be as successful as possible . 
Yet I believe that , as this debate has shown , we have to discuss the limits to competition in some areas . 
So I would ask you to give an impetus in that direction , together with Parliament . 
I have mentioned the example of social services before : nowadays we can reduce everything to attracting the customer , including the pensioner in an old people ' s home , and the question is whether we want to subject all that to competition , whether that is the right course . 
I believe we should use this legislative term to determine the limits , the positive aspects of competition . 
For competition is not an end in itself ; it is there to serve of the citizen , the consumer , which is why we should consider the areas in which we do not want it . 
Mr President , liberalising postal services could increase competitiveness in the postal sector and guarantee cheaper and more flexible services for the public ; it could also address the challenges brought by modern technology . 
I emphasise the word ' could '  , and that is if it is done well and with care . 
Wrongly done , the threatening images that have been described here will certainly become a reality . 
Social problems will increase , interregional disparities will grow , and competition will occur only in those areas where the economy is strongest , areas where there are more people and , especially , more businesses . 
On the other hand , the losers will be the remote areas and their inhabitants , and the people that will not benefit from the new services . 
Before we decide whether to liberalise postal services , there should be much more discussion about how we can make the present services more flexible and more customer - friendly , and how funding systems can facilitate the investments called for by the new technology . 
I think this policy has been reasonably successful in Finland , as testified by the present public system . 
I think , however , that common rules have to be applied to this sector , so that we do not find ourselves at some stage somewhere out in the Wild West , or even the Wild East . We need rules in common based on equality and the principle of a public service . 
Mr President , a precise assessment of the effects of the first directive is the least we can ask for when approaching the future of the public postal service . 
It would be obscene to wish to settle the fate of hundreds of thousands of postal workers , millions of service users , in a great rush . 
But , despite the unfavourable opinion of ten European postal services , a form of unacknowledged privatisation is brewing in the corridors of the Commission . 
By lowering the price / weight threshold reserved for public postal services and by liberalising mailshots or cross - border post , the second directive may offer the most profitable sectors to the competitive sector . 
Postal services may then keep whatever does not whet the appetite of the private operators . 
Whether total or partial , privatisation will only make an already dismal situation worse . 
Just the example of the privatisation of British rail services should suffice to prove the extent to which opting for maximum profit is antipathetic to maintaining a socially useful service . 
Instead of fighting amongst themselves , public postal services should cooperate , take staff on and guarantee decent , stable working conditions , while meeting the needs of service users in terms of both post delivery and savings bank services . 
Mr President , today ' s debate comes under the sign of the snail , not because I ate such excellent snails here in Strasbourg yesterday but because the snail is a symbol of slow progress . 
One example of this slow progress is the way the Commission is proceeding . 
This study is taking far too long and we feel it is important to speed up the pace at last . 
I am most grateful to the Commissioner for his plain talking today and I would ask the Commission to force the pace now . 
Today ' s debate makes it quite clear that Parliament wants more emphasis on speed , not speed at the expense of quality , but then slowness alone does not mean quality either . 
This brings me to my second point , namely the snail as symbol of our postal services . 
What has happened over the past 200 years is that the time it takes for a letter to go from Munich to Brussels has increased fivefold . 
Letters to Strasbourg arrive there a bit sooner , but it still takes far too long . 
That means that since the days of mail - coaches and taxis , we have seen a steady decline in the quality of services . 
It may be true , as was said here , that today we have new possibilities , e . g . electronic possibilities such as e - mail , but on the other hand we must realise that as ever the ordinary letter continues to play a very , very important role and that , in particular , young families , the elderly and many others continue to rely very heavily on conventional mail . 
So I believe that in relation to conventional mail we must do what Mr Radwan described in such excellent terms , namely encourage competition on the one hand and on the other , define the limits . 
But what we have often seen in recent years was the very opposite ! 
By embarking on the kind of pseudo and partial privatisations we have also witnessed in Germany , we have combined the drawbacks of the state monopoly with the drawbacks of privatisation , which is really not the purpose of the whole exercise ! 
Some speakers have referred to the social importance of the postman . Let me add to that , the importance of the post offices . 
They have referred to rural and sparsely populated areas . 
I come from Munich , a very densely populated urban conglomeration , but we have the same problem there . 
One urban district post office after another is being closed down . 
We have a disproportionately large number of old people in these large cities , who are becoming increasingly lonely with the decline in the number of retail shops . 
That is why we must define certain minimum standards here too and realise that it is important to provide the necessary services for the people . 
For if there is only one letter box left in the inner city of Munich where the mail is collected again in the evening , that reflects a rapid decline in quality , while at the same time prices are sometimes rising , which is something else we must note . 
So , yes to liberalisation , but let us also think about the limits to liberalisation , rapidly create reasonable conditions in Europe and submit the appropriate study to the Commission . 
I would hope that in future the symbol of European postal policy will no longer be the snail but that our post will finally be dispatched post - haste . 
That is a term that harks back to the time when the post was still the symbol of speed . 
Like Mr Radwan , I am glad that Commissioner Monti is here rather than Commissioner Bolkestein because I believe that he can explain to us certain aspects relating to competition . 
I do not know if Mr Monti is aware of the judgement of the Court of Justice of the European Communities of last week , 10 February , which recognised the possibility of the German postal service being in a dominant position as a result of its holding a postal monopoly . 
Competition policy will no doubt have to be applied to this sector before the coming liberalisation - before 1 January 2003 - because at the moment the tendency is to divert mail via countries with lower postage rates . 
This has consequences for free competition between the different postal administrations . 
In the event that liberalisation is brought about throughout the European Union , what consequences would that have for free competition ? 
For the moment , it appears that , in the only country where liberalisation has taken place - Sweden - there has been a 59 % increase in the price of postal services . 
We do not know what will happen in each of the countries where liberalisation is going to take place . 
It is likely that postal liberalisation will lead to greater cost differences between countries , which will no doubt have implications for competition , which will not only affect the cost of the postal service but also the establishment of installations . 
For example , there are currently companies which set up in Holland because the postal charges are lower than in Germany and the same may happen in the future . 
I therefore wonder whether the Commission ' s package on postal liberalisation will include the preservation of free competition , because it is very possible that - as has happened in most sectors in the Community today - it will lead to concentrations of large companies which will cancel out the benefits of this theoretical liberalisation . 
At the moment , in services which are not theoretically liberalised - as is the case with national postal services - there is a basic form of liberalisation , which is agreed within the framework of the Universal Postal Union , allowing for lower tariffs . 
In a service which is theoretically liberalised , free competition may disappear as a result of the concentration of the service amongst large companies abusing their dominant position , agreements between companies and other similar circumstances . 
I would therefore advise Commissioner Monti to deal with the issue of postal liberalisation , taking strict account of free competition , because I believe that this will probably become a very worrying issue in the future . 
My prediction is that the liberalised postal services will probably be much less competitive than the current public postal services . 
Mr President , the postal service is not a normal service provider like a hairdresser ' s or a fitness centre . 
For us in Finland , a sparsely populated country , a visit to the post office is a social event . 
In the world of networking , the mail service is the most democratic of all networks . 
It creates and maintains interpersonal relationships . 
The common market in postal services will be created on the terms of the marketeers . 
For us in the north it will mean that the EU will be destroying the social infrastructure . 
Commissioner Monti , the principle of competition cannot be applied to interpersonal relationships : postal services must be improved , not run down . 
Only a public mail service can guarantee that information technology is within everyone ' s reach in society . 
The post office is democracy . 
It is better suited to handling such matters than telecommunications companies . 
Telecommunications costs have risen as a consequence of companies being bought and sold and marketing costs accounting for more than 50 % of companies ' turnover . 
Democratic investments have to be made to preserve a democratic post office . 
It is particularly appropriate that Mr Monti is responding to this debate because the great conundrum with postal services is how to square an open market and free and fair competition with providing a service which is universally available to all , even in the remotest and least inhabited region of the European Union . 
In the hills and glens of Scotland and the rural borders and central belt , on the beautiful but fragile islands of the Hebrides , Orkney and Shetland , there is real concern at possibly losing this essential service . 
Yet we all know that service quality can only improve if postal services , like all service industries , are given the financial and management freedom of the private sector and the spur of open , even international , competition . 
I would suggest that there is a solution . 
It is already employed widely in the transport sector . 
Air routes , ferry routes , train routes , bus routes , within and to these remoter areas are put out to tender . 
The bidder who offers to provide the specific service at a specific quality level and at the lowest subsidy level gets the contract . 
Let us call this a negative tender franchise . 
This permits desirable competition in providing these services under a publicly - supported but fully transparent franchise system . 
Why could not mail collection and delivery in a certain region be put to negative tender in this manner ? 
The lowest subsidy would win the franchise for a certain period of time . 
Why could not the sub - post office in a remote village also be put out to this sort of negative tender ? 
It would therefore be up to the appropriate democratically accountable government body , local , regional or national - probably under overall EU supervision - to set the service criteria and the financial resources for meeting this particular social purpose . 
Otherwise the postal services can be left to all the demands and constraints of the marketplace . 
Mr President , Commissioner , it is no coincidence that I am the fifth Member of this House from Scotland to rise to speak in this debate . 
That is a measure of the importance to us of our postal services . 
Scotland as a country is larger than some Member States . 
It has many remote mainland communities accessible only by road , sometimes served poorly by public transport , sometimes not at all . 
Such communities rely for their survival on having local facilities , such as a school , a post office and a shop . 
It is on the last two that the elderly , in particular , depend . 
Often they are located together , each service being made more viable by the existence of the other . 
Scotland also has many island communities , some of which can be reached by air but most of which depend on sea ferries . 
It has been calculated that the actual cost of carrying a letter from Edinburgh to the Central Highlands is about ten times that of carrying the same letter across London . 
And it is about four times the postage cost actually charged . 
The more remote the community , the greater the difference becomes . 
That is the measure of the problem . 
It is not to oppose liberalisation to ask that it be done in a way that takes account of these factors and allows the continuation of a universal and affordable postal service . 
It is for all our remote and island communities , no matter where in the European Union they are situated , and not just for the people of Scotland , that I ask you to preserve the vital lifeline that their postal services provide . 
 . 
Mr President , I consider it a privilege that I am replacing my colleague , Commissioner Bolkestein , on the occasion of such a high - quality debate on postal services . 
I will try to respond to the debate on the basis of information provided by Commissioner Bolkestein . 
May I repeat that on Monday he will be available to the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism of Parliament . 
Some Members , like Mr Stenmarck , complain that there have been delays with the new proposal . 
Others believe that it is not so bad after all , if there is a slight pause after the first step of liberalisation . 
This is , for example , the position expressed by Mr Berthu . 
The Commission ' s position is that the new proposal was delayed mainly owing to the internal problems of the Commission , of which I am sure Parliament is not totally unaware . 
But we feel that there is a legal obligation for a proposal to be made . 
It is Commissioner Bolkestein ' s intention to present such a proposal to the Commission for adoption in the first half of this year . 
The scheduled date of 1 January 2003 for implementation of the next steps remains feasible . 
The proposal will take account of the studies undertaken and in particular look at such issues as universal service , to which I will come back in a second . 
As regards the existing directive and its implementation , most Member States have taken the necessary legal measures to transpose the directive . 
A number of problems exist as regards the structure of the regulator and its independence . 
The implementation deadline for the Member States is January 2003 . 
Further liberalisation will occur afterwards . 
In some areas competition is already taking place , as in the parcels sector and in the express services . 
The quality of services has , generally speaking , improved , in particular in regard to cross - border activity . 
The quality of services , which is so relevant to consumers , was a main concern of all speakers , some of whom , like Mr Rübig , were very explicit on this point . 
The experiences in countries where liberalisation is more advanced such as Sweden , Finland and the Netherlands , prove that when liberalisation takes place in an orderly way , the quality of service may be raised as a result of higher - quality service requirements imposed by the national regulations and their follow - up . 
So this is not a selling - out of the service and of its quality . 
Frequently liberalisation leads to guaranteed standards and the on - going standardisation of the measurement of the quality of service also contributes , as these standards will better reflect actual performance . 
This will allow for meaningful bench - marking and improved customer orientation by the incumbent operator as a result of the combined pressure by regulators , competitors and customers . 
We can see in the incumbent operators , in public post offices , a change of culture that I believe nobody can consider negative if the current trend towards concentrating on customers ' needs continues . 
The concerns expressed in this Parliament this morning by honourable Members will be at the core of the activity of my colleague and of the Commission as a whole in the preparation of the further proposal . 
That proposal will fully take into account the need to ensure universality of service , the development of efficient safeguards for consumers , and the creation of a climate which would be favourable to new jobs - not to fewer jobs - in the framework of a progressive , gradual evolution . 
The issue of universal service was mentioned by Mrs Isler Béguin , by Mr Miller , whom I thank for his personal message , and by many others . 
We are all aware of the extremely important aspect of social and structural cohesion , especially in the sparsely populated rural areas , one of which has been particularly strongly and overwhelmingly represented in the debate this morning . 
We believe that the universal service is a pillar and I am sure that my colleague will be able to provide reassurances to the appropriate parliamentary committee . 
Mrs Gillig , but others like Mr Markov and Mr Ésclope , voiced concerns about employment . 
Experience in other sectors show a sort of U - curve pattern : a phase of reduction in employment starts just before liberalisation takes place , as , of course , the incumbent prepares itself to be competitive ; then a second phase of steady employment , as new jobs in newcomer operators balance further potential employment reductions ; finally , a third phase of net job creation , both in the incumbent and new operators as the benefits of liberalisation reach users and the market develops more quickly . 
In the postal sector the first phase is already in progress , as the universal service providers have embarked on a process of modernisation . 
The new technologies and logistics rather than the process of postal liberalisation are the most important factors impacting on employment . 
On the availability of the studies ,  - a point raised by Mr Staes and others - copies of each of the studies were handed to Parliament in September 1999 . 
They have all been available on the Commission ' s Internet website since August 1999 and the Commission is willing to provide copies to anybody who is interested . 
The studies have been the object of some criticism , especially on the part of the public postal services . 
I am aware that all the studies launched experienced difficulty in collecting adequate data . 
This was no surprise , since the universal service operators do not always have the systems in place for detailed letter collection . 
Does that not say a lot about management ability ? 
No single methodology for accessing the cost and financing of the universal service is accepted by all the parties . 
Nevertheless , Mr Bolkestein is convinced that the studies undertaken provide enough clarity and precision to form the basis of the decision - making process . 
I finally come to three interventions about a subject I am supposed to know better than postal services , that is competition . 
Mr Purvis , I found your methodologically provocative remark about the tender interesting and certainly worth exploring . 
Mr Medina Ortega , I am as convinced as you are that we must be even more vigilant after liberalisation , because we do not want the disappearance of public monopolies to give rise , through unchecked concentration , to private operators . 
This applies both to the post and other sectors . 
If I can provide one example of this sort of vigilance , it is the case of Deutsche Post where , following complaints and an action before the court , the Commission initiated a formal state aid procedure in July . 
We have just received the reply of the German Government to the observations made . 
The state aid procedure covers the question of cross - subsidisation between monopoly letter services and commercial business parcel activities as well as the financing of Deutsche Post ' s numerous recent acquisitions . 
I will not go into the details due to lack of time , but this is perhaps one illustration of the fact that the Commission does not stop its work as liberalisation progresses . 
In a sense this is where its work begins . 
Finally , Mr Radwan , of course , there should be limits to competition and there are limits to competition . 
In particular , if we take the issue of competition and services of general interest , where a Member State defines a mission of public service , it is important to quantify the costs for discharging that mission and state aids that compensate for those costs are certainly not a violation of competition . 
I would slightly disagree with the terminology you used when you said , Mr Radwan , that it is time for the needs of citizens to be taken into account rather than exclusively the need for competition . 
That concept I reject firmly , because competition is there for the citizens , and for them alone . 
Most companies hate competition . 
Competition is run and managed in the interest of the citizens , their economic interest and for their liberty . 
The examples of liberalisation and competition in air transport and in telephony services in Europe show that citizens have benefited from this . 
I can only say again that Commissioner Bolkestein will be able to address all the concerns on Monday , in the appropriate committee , more competently and in much more detail . 
Thank you very much , Commissioner . 
Pursuant to Rule 42 ( 5 ) , I have received a motion for a resolution to close the present debate . 
The debate is closed . 
We shall now proceed to the vote . 
 ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE
We voted in favour of the resolution because we received a request to this effect from a French postal service trade union which was looking to obtain , in the event of a favourable vote , an additional time frame in which to defend employees . 
This does not mean that we approve the entire contents , which are too vague and which leave out the main concern . 
The policy undertaken by the European institutions and by national governments , especially the French government , is a retrograde policy , counter to the interests of both the service users , i . e . the great majority of the population , and the postal service workers . 
Postal services must continue to be public services . 
All people , regardless of their location or social status , must have access to the postal service on an equal footing and subject to the same conditions . 
In organising the public service no consideration must be given to the idea of profitability , and private firms must not be authorised to amass private profits by carrying off the most profitable public service activities . 
Consequently , the post office and its equivalents in the various countries of Europe must keep their monopoly of this service . 
In order to ensure that we have proper postal services on the European Union level , it is essential to put an end to the policy of closing down local post offices , reducing the number of deliveries and overworking postal staff . 
The post office and , more generally , all public services must , on the other hand , recruit additional staff . 
Such jobs are unquestionably useful , and creating an adequate number of them would reduce unemployment in Europe . 
Mr President , personally I voted in favour of this resolution , because the essential thing is that the European Parliament should discuss the postal service and we should get away from the current ambiguous situation . 
If we dismantle the public service , this would be very serious , and we wish to know what are the Commission ' s intentions . 
Saying that the client will receive a better service at a lower cost is patently inaccurate . 
People who live a long way from civilisation will clearly not receive a better service or else they will then have to pay a great deal and some of them will not be in a position to do so . 
Postal services do not provide simply a postal delivery service but also a social service . 
Occasionally for some people the postman is the only person they see all day . 
We can salute them , these postmen who , whatever the weather , sometimes walk for miles to be able to offer this service to everyone . 
Dismantling the postal service , the local communication service , would be a serious mistake and we would be unable to maintain the principle of the equality of all citizens . 
Profitability at all costs means going against fraternity and against social cohesion . 
Mr President , I voted for the resolution and should like to explain my motives . 
Several speakers mentioned that the only person with whom many elderly people have any contact is the postman , particularly in mountain communities . 
I wholeheartedly agree . However , it also seems to me that the pensions of many elderly people are being reduced as a result of national budget constraints . 
In my own country , Italy , there are some 200 000 postal workers who cost the state approximately ITL 50 million a year per capita , or EUR 25 000 , that is , a total cost of around EUR 5 million . 
Liberalisation of postal services would mean that the state could give each pensioner an extra ITL 10 million a year so that a million pensioners would see their pensions doubled . 
That should amply compensate them for forgoing their contact with the postman . 
Mr President , I voted in favour of the resolution on European postal services with all the more satisfaction since it reiterates once again the position I have always defended in this House , which is the need for a high quality universal service , particularly ensuring this service in the least populated regions and rural regions , and there are some even in my small country , the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg . 
In these regions but also in some districts of towns and cities , as Mr Posselt explained so clearly , post offices and postmen have an almost socio - cultural role , I might say , which goes beyond merely delivering mail . 
I know that this service is unprofitable . 
It would perhaps be less costly to make a fax or email available to isolated houses or villages . 
In principle , I am in favour of abolishing public sector monopolies , whether in water , gas , electricity , telephone , satellite , cable or any other services . Nonetheless , liberalisation , which has a lot to offer to the consumer in terms of the price and the quality of the service , especially in the telephone sector , must cease as soon as the service provided becomes inadequate or disappears , when the firms profiting from liberalisation are not making money . 
If they cannot be obliged to provide what the state monopoly was able to guarantee , particularly thanks to its obligation to provide a universal service , then the public service must be protected . 
I feel we can still afford to maintain a postal service , even if our post offices operate like businesses . 
They clearly have to make some effort so that they are no longer described as snail mail even if they cannot attain the speed of email . 
 .  ( FR ) Here indeed is a sector which has highlighted the limitations and serious deficiencies of liberalisation . 
I am not , personally , a blinkered militant in favour of monopolies , whether public or private , but when I see the results achieved by private firms in this sector I am reinforced in my position as a defender of public service ! 
If liberalisation continues in this area too , then there is a great risk that one day we will see entire regions with no postal service . 
For who can believe for one moment that private firms , motivated only by profit , will continue to provide services in high - cost areas unless the costs are borne by the already disadvantaged inhabitants who are not , therefore , in a position to take advantage of the service . 
I should add that today , at a time when Europe is revealing itself and is proving to be incapable of opposing the inclusion of Fascists in a government within the European Union , it is no longer acceptable to have an ultraliberalism which destroys public services foisted on us in the name of this same Europe . 
I am a European and even a federalist . 
To achieve this I was ready and I am ready to make certain sacrifices , but not just anything ! 
Most especially , I am no longer ready to accept the formation of a liberal single market if Europe is not at the same time capable of defending the values on which it is based and which , in the 1960s , made me a committed European ! 
President . 
Parliament has completed the agenda . 
The Minutes of this sitting will be submitted for approval by Parliament at the beginning of the next part - session . 
Adjournment of the session
I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned . 
 ( The sitting was closed at 11 . 10 a . m . ) 
Resumption of the session
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday , 18 February 2000 . 
Statement by the President
Ladies and gentlemen , as you know , on 22 February , ETA struck again in a brutal attack in Spain with the murder of Fernando Buesa Blanco , the General Secretary of the Socialist Party of Vizcaya and the spokesman of the Socialist Party of the Basque Parliament , and Jorge Díez Elorza , his bodyguard . 
The same day , I conveyed my own and the European Parliament ' s deepest sympathy and sincere condolences to the victims ' families . 
These men paid with their lives for their commitment to democracy . 
I utterly condemn this act of barbarism that is unworthy of any civilised society . 
The rule of law and the respect of rights and fundamental freedoms are the principles on which the European Union is based . 
Terrorism , whatever form it takes , is unacceptable . 
In expressing the hope that these men will be the last victims of ETA , I call on this organisation finally to cease resorting to violence and to use the democratic channels that exist in Spain . 
I would ask you , ladies and gentlemen , to observe one minute ' s silence in memory of Fernando Buesa Blanco and Jorge Díez Elorza . 
 ( The House rose and observed a minute ' s silence ) 
Madam President , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists , I want to thank you for your statement last Tuesday and for your words today in memory of Fernando Buesa Blanco . 
He was a member of the Basque regional parliament , spokesman for the Socialist Party in that parliament and also a former vice - president of the Basque regional government . 
Madam President , the best tribute that my Group and this House can pay to Fernando Buesa is to take on board his vision , as a European , of the Basque Country , Spain and Europe . 
The following is a translated extract from his autobiography .  ' We are in Europe . 
Anyone of my age - I am 54 - can remember their grandparents ' era and their parents ' era and , of course , is living in the current era . We can also see into the era in which our children will live . 
In my grandparents ' time , it took several days to travel from Vitoria to Seville . 
Now you can go from Vitoria to Copenhagen in 2 or 3 hours by plane . 
Today , at the end of the 20th century , a single market is operating in Europe in which we will soon be using a single currency . 
We can now travel much more easily than our grandparents could within Spain or even within the Basque Country . 
We are building a vast European area which will firstly be linked economically and then politically . 
This process may take a long time but it is unstoppable and , what is more , desirable . 
The public still regard this as being a long way off but it is very real and should serve to make us question certain aspects of our current situation . 
In a debate within the Socialist Party on the Irish process , someone said :  " In the end , the key to the Irish solution was that everyone involved had the following thought : does it really matter whether we are Irish or British ? 
Everyone can be what they want to be because , if Ireland and Britain are both in the European Union , there is no point in killing each other for being Irish or British . 
What difference does it make if the national level is no longer going to function ? " 
We in the Basque Country could ask ourselves the same question . Does it really matter if we are Basque or Spanish or European ? 
We have talked a lot about what it is to be Basque , but a Basque today dresses like a Dane and reads the same things as a British person . 
If life is going to be lived on a much more global basis , as is already happening , and our children will therefore be living in the Europe which we are creating , why are we killing each other for being Basque or Spanish ? ' 
Fernando Buesa also said the following , which everyone in Ireland has probably thought .  ' If we are killing each other for no reason - and this was happening in Ireland because there were paramilitary groups on all sides - we should be resolutely asking ourselves this question in the Basque Country too . 
What difference does it make to be Basque ? Surely it is all the same thing . 
You can be what you want to be . 
If , in the future , economics and politics and vital decisions for each country are dealt with in the European arena , there is no point killing or dying for being Basque or Spanish '  . 
May he rest in peace . 
 ( Loud applause ) 
