Mr President , Commissioner , I would like to thank Mrs Schroedter for an excellent report . 
She has gone into the issue in some depth and in the committee debate she took account of many of the amendments that have been tabled regarding this report . 
The rapporteur has also quite rightly stated that Parliament was not heard in time regarding the guidelines . 
We are badly behind now in this matter . 
Hopefully , the stands Parliament has taken will help , however , in the mid - term appraisal of the programmes and in their practical implementation . 
For the time , the report grew too large when it was being debated . It contained details and issues that had already been raised in previous reports . 
At this stage it is more important to concentrate on assessing how we can use this process to steer Union regional policy , bearing in mind that the aim is to reduce regional inequality . 
Our Group emphasises the importance of the principle of subsidiarity , the responsibility of Member States and the role of local players in drafting and implementing programmes . It is especially important to get SMEs involved in the planning and implementation of programmes . 
Our Group also considers it important to take greater account of remote and peripheral areas and wishes to increase interaction between towns and rural areas . 
We oppose the excessive control the central administration of the Union and its Member States exercises and we are calling for a reduction in the bureaucracy that has taken root in the drafting and implementation of programmes . 
Projects implemented with support from the Union have had their effect watered down all too often by slow decision making and complicated administrative processes . 
Funds have often been granted for projects which have had no lasting benefit for the area concerned . Projects have to be carried out more efficiently , more flexibly and they have to be made more productive . 
While the report was being prepared , it was interesting to discuss the Union ' s regional policy in general . 
For us new members , it was the first time , and this was a very interesting process . 
This report is very good and our Group supports it . 
Mr President , Commissioner , as proof that this Parliament has not yet overcome its role as a consultative and subordinate institution , the excellent report by a fellow member of my Group , Elisabeth Schroedter , has not been able to reach plenary sitting because the plans for regional development for the period 2000 - 2006 for Objective 1 regions have been sitting in the Commission ' s offices for several months . 
Bearing this in mind , this House should , in any event , demand that , before the Community support frameworks for the period in question are approved , they be studied and submitted for debate in this Parliament , specifically in light of the guidelines that we have presented today . This is because we think that they are particularly able to create employment in the poorest and least - developed regions and we would thus contribute to reversing the harmful trends towards inequality that exist in European society and to the move towards a fairer Europe . 
Mr President , we should not forget that the main , strategic objective of the Structural and Cohesion Funds and of their coordination is to achieve economic and social cohesion . 
We are obliged to participate in drafting directives and also in assessing their results . 
We are obliged to do so because we are the representatives of the citizens in a Europe of Citizens and not just in a Europe of States and of Regions . 
We feel that the Funds are a necessary but insufficient condition for achieving economic and social cohesion . 
We might be mistaken in using the gross domestic product per inhabitant as the sole indicator . 
Some speakers have already mentioned unemployment and the fall in population . 
We will have to study several indicators , which will enable us to see the current state of regional societies that are in a worse situation than others , and how they are evolving . 
It is clear from some of the reports that have been presented to Parliament ' s plenary sitting today that Europe ' s 25 most prosperous regions enjoy a level of unemployment which is five times lower than in the 25 least prosperous regions . 
This fact means that the European Parliament , the Commissioner and the Commission must act decisively and strategically . 
I agree that the European Parliament did not have the opportunity - or that it was not given the opportunity , as we had reached the end of the parliamentary term - to discuss the directives . 
I do not think , however , that this report has come too late . 
We need to consider it together , so that the new Objective 1 programmes and the plans for regional development , which have been drafted before the directives come into force , can be submitted for revision and proper assessment . 
We all agree that we should ask that , halfway through these programmes , when the assessment of the directives is made , Parliament should be given an equally influential role on the grounds that we are the citizens ' representatives . 
Our citizens cannot accept that the European Union takes decisions in a way that is , at least on the face of it , bureaucratic . 
They need to see the political dimension working , to see that officials accept their responsibilities and that there is communication with the citizens . 
This is what we are today asking the Commissioner for . 
I would like to think that , given his previous experience as a regional President , he will agree to propose indicators , and a strategy , which will favour economic and social cohesion and not just productivity . 
Mr President , I support the main proposals of the report concerning the administration of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund for the period 2000 - 2006 and the main recommendations of the report which include the following : there must always be an integrated approach to the spending of EU Structural and Cohesion Funds . 
This means that there must be a comprehensive partnership between local authorities and national governments with regard to how these funds are to be spent . 
Member States are urged to attach greater importance to integrated strategies for revitalising relations between towns and rural areas . This latter point is of particular importance . 
While urban renewal in our cities is very important we must always strike a balance in our policies between promoting rural development and improving the lives of city dwellers . 
We do not want to build a Europe of cities alone . 
The Structural Funds have played a key role in the development both of urban and rural parts of peripheral countries , mainly through the upgrading of roads , water treatment and related transport networks . 
This process will continue in accordance with the financial spending guidelines laid down by the EU leaders at their Berlin Summit last year , which were supported by Parliament at its last May plenary part - session . 
Key EU programmes between 1989 , 1993 , 1994 and 1999 have certainly helped to improve the economic competitiveness of peripheral countries and Objective 1 regions within Europe . 
The key now is to consolidate and make permanent the progress made to date . 
This would ensure that the peripheral countries and the ultraperipheral regions , the poorer regions in Europe , are in a position to operate successfully within the new euro currency zone , as well as within an ever - expanding internal market where the free movement of goods , persons , services and capital exist . 
In conclusion , while key infrastructure projects have been supported by the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund , we should remember that the European Social Fund has played a very important role in helping the less well - off in our society . 
The Social Fund has certainly improved our third - level institutions , financed our post - leaving certificate programmes and put in place comprehensive schemes to help combat youth and long - term unemployment , assist early school leavers and promote higher standards of adult literacy . 
Mr President , on numerous occasions in the past I have disagreed with the rapporteur on her approach to regional policy issues . This time , however , I actually agree with her . 
Whether or not this will encourage her to continue along the same path , I cannot say . Nevertheless , I would like to commend her on her work . 
The second point I would like to make is that we would have preferred it if the guidelines had been added to the regulation in the form of an annex , as we and Mrs McCarthy , as rapporteurs for the general regulation , had asked . 
Unfortunately , this did not happen . Mr Bernié is not to blame for this as it was a matter for the previous committee . 
I am raising the issue just to reiterate Parliament ' s position . 
Thirdly , we broadly agree on the general guidelines provided they do not deviate from the comments we have made so far . 
They are particularly beneficial to the Member States , and I would particularly like to draw your attention to the emphasis the Commission has placed on the issues of sustainable development , job creation and , more particularly , on equal opportunities and transport issues . 
Personally , I at least am totally in favour of the guidelines . 
As an islander , however , I would like to express my dissatisfaction at the lack of recognition of island development . 
This is not the first time that this issue has not been given the consideration it deserves . This has been an ongoing concern for the five years that I have been a Member of this Parliament , and I have raised the issue time and time again . 
Commissioner , we shall continue to raise the issue , as Article 158 , paragraph 1 , of the Treaty of Amsterdam provides for an integrated policy for islands . 
Therefore , the Commission should address the issue once and for all . 
The time has come to implement the programmes , and so Member States should also assume their responsibilities and do their jobs properly . 
As for us in Parliament , I would like to remind you of the code of conduct between the Commission and Parliament which was signed in May . 
I am absolutely certain that this code will be observed and that Parliament will keep abreast of all the developments and details concerning the implementation of the programmes . 
Mr President , Commissioner , in this minute and a half I should like , first of all , to congratulate Mrs Schroedter . 
I know many have already done so , but she has indeed earned our praise for being particularly open and attentive to proposals from all sides , and I think it is this openness which has given her report the quality we see today . 
I share the regrets she expressed , namely that Parliament has become involved rather late in the day as regards these guidelines , since by now the procedure for negotiations with the states is so far advanced that I cannot see this report having any sort of immediate effect , which in my view is a pity . 
Consequently , I feel we must look to the future and establish guidelines for the mid - term review in 2003 , and thus have an influence on the second phase of programming set to follow 2003 . 
In brief , I would like to say that we are entering the period when we are called upon to manage the programming for 2000 - 2006 , which must be no routine period for the good reason that we have two major challenges to face . 
The first is the harmonisation of national development policies and regional development policies . 
Subsidies are not enough to ensure development when infrastructure and public services are lacking . 
We must ask ourselves a fundamental question : how can we ensure that Union policy interfaces with the subsidiary national policies for regional development ? 
The second challenge is that of enlargement which will , of course , have a considerable impact , both in budgetary and geographical terms . 
These are two areas of action which I invite the Commissioner to set up and in which I would ask him to involve us . 
Finally , in this time of natural disasters , I would just like to mention the issue of the use of Structural Funds . 
As you know , it is up to each State to redistribute part of the total appropriation . 
Europe should not be completely absent , as the states tend to want . 
Public opinion and the press nowadays accuse us of being unavailable to give a response , even though we are going to be funding a large proportion of the national operations . 
I think we should be capable of saying this loud and clear . 
I also think we should ensure , or ask Member States to ensure , that there is some publicity given to European aid whenever it is used to repair damage caused by natural disasters or accidents . 
Mr President , the priority given to financial and monetary criteria reinforces the increase in inequalities of every shape and form . 
As far as French planning experts are concerned , for example , the most probable scenario today is that of the entrenchment of regional disparities within each country . 
Well , the Structural Funds have helped to apply a brake to this process . 
Our project of a Europe that aims to satisfy social needs envisages the convergence of living conditions towards the highest common denominator . 
Its implementation would certainly require extending the scope of redistribution instruments such as the Structural Funds . 
What we are proposing specifically is a unified capital tax , which would make it possible to boost the funds used to support the harmonisation of social protection systems and the reduction of working hours at European level . 
The Commission , however , though bound to issue guidelines , does so only reluctantly and in a vague manner . 
The report put forward today re - establishes its place in the political sphere . 
It is one of the steps towards a policy of employment and sustainable development . 
This is what persuades us to vote in favour of it . 
Mr President , I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work . 
Over the coming years , faced with the challenges of globalisation and eastward enlargement , Europe will , more than ever before , require appropriate detailed guidance on how to plan and revitalise its economy . 
To this end , Europe as a whole , and each Member State individually , will have to make optimum use of all available resources and capacities , including the Structural Funds . 
For this to be possible , what we need from the European Commission are not just good intentions , but clearer guidelines and a firm commitment to monitoring the way these resources are used by the Member States . 
For example , in recent years Italy has had problems in utilising the Structural Funds , mainly because of excessive bureaucracy , insufficient information and a lack of involvement of economic and social operators at local level . 
There are , therefore , two points to which I would like to draw the Commission ' s attention . 
Firstly , we need to make the best possible use of consultation as a means of ensuring proper coordination and participation by all local and regional operators in decision - making , precisely so that imbalances and inequalities can be avoided . Secondly , a genuine effort is required to make administrative procedures simpler and more transparent , since , they are all too often unnecessarily lengthy and complicated , to the point of hindering access to the Funds . 
This is something about which European small and medium - sized businesses , in particular , tend to complain . 
I will conclude , Mr President , by saying that the failure of the Commission ' s communication to focus on territorial pacts and , especially , methods of combating unemployment among women and young people , is cause for serious concern . 
Mr President , like my colleague Mr Evans , it is a particular pleasure to rise and make my first speech to this House on this very important issue , especially since I represent a part of the United Kingdom , the West Midlands , which has hitherto benefited from Objective 2 funding in particular . 
But the report before the House tonight is a prime example of how , if we are not very careful , we can produce very grandiose - sounding ideas that lack the substance to make them relevant to the people who benefit directly from them . 
The report itself is well - intentioned but , as so often when we deal with these issues , lacks clarity of purpose and a sound basis for operability . 
That is why I and my Group are proposing three key amendments and additions to the text , not to take anything away from the proposal , but to make it more relevant to those whom it is there to guide . 
I would like to explain our thinking here . 
Firstly , we are concerned with the proper use of the Structural and Cohesion Funds . 
Past experience dictates that , as the elected representatives of the European taxpayer , we should , and indeed must , demand financial probity and transparency in the disbursement and auditing of this money , hence our amendments and additions relate to achieving what are known as " value for money " indicators in the grant - giving process . 
Next , we all too often see vast sums of money being spent on projects whose outcomes will necessarily be unclear at the start of the programme period . 
But at the mid - way point or end of that period there is no effective way of terminating the project if it has not proved successful . 
Our additions therefore call for the provision of practical enforceable exit strategies so that not only can we have the requisite insurance against ongoing costs which are often loaded onto the taxpayer , but we also avoid the well - rehearsed syndrome of throwing good money after bad . 
Finally , we call for a change to the balance and method by which the funds are disbursed . 
There should be greater involvement of the private sector which will introduce financial reality as a perspective within the funding equation . 
Also the type of project funded needs to be shifted away from small - scale revenue - based projects , which are hard to monitor , towards capital schemes where , in the majority of cases , the benefits are there for all to see . 
That way the much - trumpeted need for transparency in the use of these funds and the temptation to draw unnecessarily in the longer term on the local tax base in areas where such projects are located will be diminished and the European Parliament will show how seriously it takes the need for such reform . 
If these changes to the report are supported by the House today , I believe that they will move us forward in the next phase of achieving the historic objectives which the funds were set up to bring about , namely to assist - in a financially sustainable manner - those deprived areas of the European Union which need to be brought up to a decent standard of living , not by giving a hand - out but by giving a " hand - up " . 
I urge the House to support these changes . 
Mr President , Commissioner , I too would like to commend the rapporteur on her report , which is a meticulous and substantive piece of work . 
The European Union ' s structural and cohesion policies are , without doubt , essential tools for creating the right conditions with a view to tackling and reducing the levels of economic and social disparity between the regions . 
Despite the steps taken thus far , these levels are still very high , and are unacceptably high as regards unemployment . 
These policy objectives can only be achieved through their careful coordination and organisation on the basis of well thought - out and sensible guidelines . 
Let us not forget that when these policies are effective , they also benefit European citizens by directly improving their quality of life . 
Let us not forget either that greater consideration should be given to the islands and remote regions of the European Union because their geographical location is a hindrance to their economic and social development , unless of course the Commission is intending to build bridges or underwater tunnels linking them to the European mainland . 
In closing , I would like to point out that the structural policies as a whole require greater flexibility so that they can adapt to changing circumstances and thereby respond to the new challenges and opportunities of the new millennium , for which we all hope for the best . 
Mr President , Mrs Schroedter ' s report undoubtedly contains several important observations , and I would like to congratulate her on that . 
However , I feel that we should be a little more concerned about the actual direction and outcome of the Community ' s regional policy . 
Quite briefly , structural policy does not ease the problem of mass unemployment in any way , rather it aggravates it . 
The agricultural economy and agricultural regions have been irreparably damaged by the existing regional policy , which has had dramatic consequences on employment levels in rural areas and on the living conditions of farmers , particularly in the South . 
Regional disparities are becoming much more marked within the Member States . 
If we examine the data presented in the sixth periodic report , we will see that the last decade has witnessed a proliferation of regional disparities . 
Little consideration , if any at all , has been given to the great problems facing the island regions of the Union whose shortcomings as regards infrastrucutres structure , transport , communication and energy has resulted in their gradual depopulation . 
The Union ' s economic and social policy is just as much to blame for that as its regional policy . 
A large section of the Union ' s population has strongly condemned this policy for being dangerous and anti grass - roots . 
Unfortunately , the new guidelines seem to be heading in the same direction and there are no signs that things will change once they have been implemented . 
Mr President , I would like to say a few words in order to highlight two points made in these reports which are of fundamental strategic importance to the way we see the Union . 
The first is the fundamental , central importance that we continue to give to the principle of economic and social cohesion . 
We are concerned to hear news that the Commission is taking this objective less seriously . 
We still feel that economic and social cohesion is one of the Union ' s fundamental objectives . 
Secondly , I agree with what has already been said on the issue of the islands and I would also like to bring the outermost regions to your attention . 
In future , we would like to see greater ambition applied to the subject of the outermost regions such as , in my country , the islands of the Azores and Madeira . 
I would like to ask if the Commission is able to enlighten us on the reasons for the delay in the Commission ' s report on the outermost regions , which has been long awaited by Parliament ? 
Mr President , first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur , not least for being willing to include in the report the suggestions we made . 
Mr President , Commissioner , the guidelines are intended to help steer the Member States towards achieving the reform objectives contained in the programmes . 
However , contrary to their claim to provide guidance , the Commission ' s proposals in this respect are reminiscent to a far greater extent of a catalogue of possible measures within the scope of the various policy areas . 
Nonetheless , their true purpose is to give direction and to set priorities . 
I agree with the rapporteur that unfortunately the Commission document contains too little in the way of recommendations to the Member States on simplifying administration , and I support the calls for negotiations to concentrate on promoting a favourable climate for labour - intensive , small and medium - sized enterprises , on setting clear objectives for alternative sources of financing including provisions for risk capital and private financing , and on start - up help for companies including new information technologies and investment in innovative fields . 
I am particularly in favour of a proposed amendment tabled by my Group to paragraph 10 , to ensure an appropriate level of private sector involvement in the planning and implementation of the projects . 
I should be very grateful , Mrs Schroedter , if you would actually include this proposed amendment in the part relating to subsidiarity in your positive deliberations . 
Mr President , Commissioner , in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs , we upheld unanimously the criterion that it was of strategic importance and a matter of priority to support the interventions of the Structural and Cohesion Funds which are working for a better opportunity for jobs for the unemployed and for equality between men and women . 
Unfortunately , the excellent Schroedter report did not take account of this criterion , despite the fact that there is considerable evidence to show - as we shall see later in the Berend report - how , in fact , these funds are providing splendid assistance to the most backward regions in order to bridge the gulf that separates them from Europe ' s most highly - developed regions . 
They are growing , but only in terms of GDP . 
They are increasing in competitiveness but they are not all experiencing an increase in wealth because there is no increase in employment and there are still differences in employment opportunities between regions . 
Commissioner , please read the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and treat it as a matter of priority , because this is our citizens ' greatest problem . 
Please take account , in strategic terms , in the revision and in the allocation of reserves , of employment needs , because this , fundamentally is what the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Funds require . 
Mr President , it is important that the guidelines head in the right direction and that they guarantee the effectiveness of the programmes of the crucial seven - year period 2000 - 2006 so as to ensure sustainable development and job creation , particularly for women and young people , and ensure a balance is struck between economic and social policy and regional policy . 
It is particularly important to address those serious issues concerning urban areas , employment in rural areas , aid to agricultural regions and equal development opportunities for the islands of the European Union and for the Greek islands which , of course , comprise half of the islands of the Union , as stipulated in Article 158 of the Treaty . 
Cohesion policy needs to be strengthened further because a Europe which totally disregards the standard of living in its regions can neither be reliable or viable . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I would like to express my great interest in listening carefully to the comments , occasional criticisms and suggestions that some of you have just made in your speeches with reference to Mrs Schroedter ' s report . 
Everyone understands , Mrs Schroedter , ladies and gentlemen , the reasons and the time limits involved - and I shall come back to this point presently - and whatever the time limits or delays , since we are discussing this report right now , as the representative for the Commission , I consider that the report has been issued at an opportune moment with regard to the guidelines for 2000 - 2006 as it is now that we are starting the new regional programming . 
Mrs Schroedter , you quite rightly pointed out that while it is chiefly up to the Member States and the regions to define their own priorities in development matters , European Union cofinancing of the programmes requires , and is the justification for , a situation where Community priorities as debated and approved in this House should also be taken into account in order to promote this Community aspect of economic and social cohesion which many of you forcefully pointed out . 
So , ladies and gentlemen , I should like in a moment to return to the role and structure of the guidelines before mentioning the principal comments and criticisms that you , Mrs Schroedter , and the various Members of this House , have made . 
Regarding the role and structure of these guidelines , Mr Hatzidakis , Mrs Schroedter and Mrs McCarthy mentioned that the purpose of these guidelines is to assist national and regional authorities in preparing their programming strategy for each of Structural Fund Objectives 1 , 2 and 3 as well as their links with the Cohesion Funds . 
This means putting forward the Commission ' s priorities , based on past experience in implementing the programmes , as well as current Community policies relating to structural operations . 
The objective is that these priorities should contribute to the better use , to the optimum and efficient use , as some of you have wished , of Community involvement , including , Mr Bradbourn , using , if necessary , the performance reserve which is specifically intended to encourage the optimum and efficient use of European public monies . 
When I speak of optimum utilisation , I am referring both to the national and regional levels . And so , Mr Seppänen , I shall also mention at this point , speaking of the national level , the link with the Cohesion Fund . 
This is the purpose of these guidelines . 
Regarding their content , as you know , ladies and gentlemen of this House , they are focused on three strategic priorities that your rapporteur pointed out very clearly but , at the same time , very passionately , as I understood her presentation just now . 
The first priority is to improve the competitiveness of regional economies in order to create , in all sectors , but especially in the private sector , as Mr Berend said , the maximum number of serious , worthwhile and permanent jobs , the competitiveness of regional economies , all regional economies , and in particular , Mr Evans , that of Wales , but not only of Wales . 
And , because there are a number of you who have just pointed out what appeared to you to be an omission , let me also add the regional economies of the European regions handicapped by their distance from the centre , be they remote regions , island regions or , of course , the most remote regions which are , naturally , the most distant . 
Perhaps I may inform Mr Ribeiro e Castro , who asked me about this , that , as I wrote to the presidents of each of these most remote regions , the Commission did indeed request an extension of several weeks before publishing its anticipated report . 
Concerning the most remote regions , it was only quite belatedly that we received the memorandums from the various governments , but this is not necessarily an excuse , just an explanation . 
We must therefore take these memorandums into consideration and produce an extremely thorough piece of work . 
I myself took part in a meeting of the most remote regions on 23 November and , within the College , we considered that we would need several more weeks before being able to produce a report that dealt appropriately with the extremely serious problems and lived up to the expectations of these most remote regions . I would thank you for your understanding in this matter . 
So that is the first priority , the competitiveness of regional economies . 
The second priority , which several of you have stressed , Mr Puerta in particular , but there were others , not that I am mentioning them in any order of priority , is the strengthening of social cohesion and of employment , particularly by raising the profile of human resources far more so than in the past . 
Ladies and gentlemen , we now have a European Union where the disparities between countries are observed to be less great , proving the effectiveness and worth of the Cohesion Fund , but where , at the same time , in relation to unemployment - as you wrote , Mrs Schroedter - an increasing gap exists between the 15 or 20 richest regions and the 15 or 20 poorest or most disadvantaged regions . This is a situation which is , as it should be , unjustifiable and intolerable . 
As far as I am concerned - taking into account my own concept of the construction of Europe and regional development policy in particular - this is a situation which I find unacceptable and I have every intention , as far as possible , with your support , of dedicating all the appropriations for which I am responsible to this improved social , human and territorial cohesion , particularly in order to prevent what I once called in this House a two - speed Europe , a Europe of wealthy districts but , at the same time , a Europe of impoverished areas . 
The third objective is urban and rural development , within the scope of a balanced territorial policy . 
In fact , the guidelines take two horizontal principles into account . The first is rural development , and let me say , Mrs Schroedter , that I am including in rural development the matter of sustainable transport , an issue I have been involved in personally for a long time . 
I particularly remember the time when I was Minister for the Environment in my own country . The second principle is that of equal opportunities , particularly for men and women , as well as the European strategy for employment and the context of economic and monetary Union . 
Finally , and in order to respond to the concerns which you have expressed in this House , particularly yourself , Mrs Schroedter , in these guidelines we recall the importance and the definition of integrated strategies , for development or redevelopment , which , of all the priorities , offer the maximum opportunity to synergy , to the measures undertaken and to the establishment of a decentralised partnership . 
You expressed some concern about what might look like a lack of reference to this partnership , yet there is a clear reference to it on page 5 of the guidelines . 
However , I do wish to mention - since you have asked me to do so - that , as far as I am concerned , this partnership - and I spent long enough as a regional administrator within my own country to be able to say this most sincerely - is a tool , one used to involve local brainpower , be it in the public sector , in the form of elected representatives , the social and educational sectors , associations , or in the private sector ; a decentralised partnership , and let me mention in this connection , in response to Mrs Angelilli , the territorial pacts , which are one of the means available to this decentralised partnership . 
These are the reasons why the guidelines are presented according to thematic priorities , since they must be taken into consideration , under each of the objectives , to different extents in accordance with the specific situations of each of the Member States and regions . 
I should now like to respond briefly to a few of the comments you have made , ladies and gentlemen , and firstly on procedure . 
It is true that consultation with Parliament has only come about at a late date . 
Let me remind you that when the guidelines were adopted by the Commission , in the form of a draft in February 1999 , in line with a new procedure intended to make it easier to present comments on this text , my predecessor , Mrs Wulf - Mathies , presented them to Parliament immediately . 
Due to the elections to the European Parliament taking place around this time , however , Parliament was not able to undertake its examination of these guidelines until after the text had been definitively adopted , in July 1999 . 
Here in this Chamber , ladies and gentlemen , among you , I wish to assure you that in the negotiations for the programmes which are only just beginning - Mr Hatzidakis asked me a question about this - as far as Member States are concerned , your observations will certainly be taken into consideration . 
And let me assure you , furthermore , that when the Commission adopts the guidelines with what we call the mid - term review in mind , in line with the regulations , then the point of view of this House , as expressed in this report , will also be taken into account . 
Now to the form . 
On the subject of the role of the guidelines , Mrs Schroedter , you pointed out that this is the context in which guidelines on a number of European objectives , often very precise ones , should be provided . 
I shall not list them all , but they include implementing intersectoral policies , increasing efficiency in the use of public funds , assisting the various partners in drawing up regional or national programming together , etc . The Commission takes note of these , but several of these guidelines or these questions are related more to other documents , such as the Guide to the Reform of the Structural Funds or the methodological working document . 
Drawing to a close , I should like to focus on a number of challenges which you reiterated , Mrs Schroedter . 
I am thinking , for example , of the idea that these guidelines are not specific enough in their recommendations . 
This claim that your report makes must be seen in the context of last spring ' s negotiations . 
The Commission kept to the actual text of Article 10 of the Structural Funds regulations , which stipulates that the aim of these guidelines is to provide Member States with broad , indicative guidelines on relevant and agreed Community policies . 
I actually quoted the text itself , in quotation marks . 
Moreover , the guidelines may not substitute for the programming or the ex ante assessments which must be the tool used to specify priorities and the effectiveness of these programmes . 
You then mentioned , Mrs Schroedter , the section of the guidelines relating to urban and rural development , pointing out that urban development was not sufficiently taken into consideration . 
I find the opposite the case . 
I wish to confirm the great importance the Commission attaches , and shall attach , to the urban dimension of our cohesion policy . 
Indeed , I had occasion recently to say as much to all the ministers responsible for urban policy at a meeting in Tampere . 
As regards rural development , which a number of you brought up , particularly Mrs Redondo Jiménez , the guidelines are in line with the twofold objective mentioned by your rapporteur : a strong agricultural sector linked with increased competitiveness in rural areas , but also protection of the environment and Europe ' s rural heritage . 
It must , however , be stressed that the guidelines under discussion are related only to the Structural Funds , whose Objectives 1 and 2 specifically adopt the diversification of rural society as a priority . 
And indeed , on the subject of the balance of rural society , let us not forget that there is also the new rural development policy cofinanced by the EAGGF Guarantee Section , aimed at promoting reform in European agriculture and supporting the multifunctional aspect of agriculture . 
At this stage , I would simply like to say that I would like to see it integrated into the programming for Objective 2 rural areas , in the way that the EAGGF Guidance Section is for Objective 1 regions . 
In any event , I appreciate the vigilance of your Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in this matter . 
Before concluding , I should like to tell Mr Savary that we are going to have a special debate tomorrow on the consequences of the storms which have struck France , Austria and Germany , in particular , in the last few weeks , and at the same time we shall once again be discussing , together with my fellow Commissioner , Mrs de Palacio , what lessons we might draw in the matter of the oil spillage which has also affected the coasts of France . 
I shall therefore reserve the right , if you permit , sir , to give you my own opinion , which , to a great extent , matches your own recommendation regarding what action we might take to combat the oil spillage using Objective 2 . 
I shall remind you that the Commission is going to be approving the Objective 2 zoning plans for France , Sweden , Austria and Luxembourg tomorrow . 
We shall then have an appropriate tool for working , particularly in the majority of the regions affected by the storms . 
Indeed , this is my reason for paying a personal visit the day after tomorrow to two of the French departments which have been severely disabled by the storms . 
In conclusion , with thanks for your understanding , Mr President , I should like to thank you , Mrs Schroedter , for the quality of your work and that of the committee , and to tell you that I am very pleased , apart from a few differences in our assessments of the role of the guidelines . 
We have discussed this and I have attempted to clarify my point of view . I am very pleased with the level of support offered by your House to the Commission in establishing these guidelines , which have been submitted to the Member States for information when establishing their own programmes . 
This can only reinforce the concept based on a number of elements of good practice drawn from our experience of the current 1994 - 1999 programmes . 
I feel this augurs well for effective cooperation between our two institutions , at this time when programming for the period 2000 - 2006 is being undertaken , good joint working practice , which is , Mr Hatzidakis , backed up by something I am very attentive to : observance of the code of conduct which links our two institutions . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p . m . 
Social and economic situation and development of the regions of the Union
The next item is the debate on the report ( A5 - 0107 / 1999 ) by Mr Berend , on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , on the sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the European Union [ SEC ( 99 ) 0066 - C5 - 0120 / 99 - 1999 / 2123 ( COS ) ] . 
Mr President , Commissioner , this sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the European Union constitutes a milestone in the analysis of regional data and highlights the progress made in this area since the issue of the fifth periodic report . 
I consider , however , that the mention of any real convergence of average regional development levels in Europe offers a somewhat over - simplified view of the situation and , unfortunately , this is often the message taken up in the press and in some speeches . 
The Commission report generally relativises this observation , particularly when it refers to the social and economic situation of some regions of the Union in which I have a special interest , by which I mean the French overseas departments and , more generally , the most remote regions . 
In this respect , I am pleased to see that the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism has adopted one of my amendments calling on the Commission to devote a specific chapter in its next report on cohesion to the special case of the most remote regions and , more specifically , to consideration of the impact of the measures shortly to be adopted under new Article 299 ( 2 ) of the Treaty of Amsterdam . 
Finally , in my view , this sixth periodic report presents interesting arguments from the viewpoint of a real project for the balanced sustainable development of Europe , particularly when it outlines the importance of relations between the central areas of Europe and its more remote regions . 
Even if the Commission is still reluctant to say so in too explicit a fashion , its periodic report demonstrates the urgent need to promote polycentric development of the Community area through the Union ' s structural policies and within the scope of the approach initiated by the SEC . 
Mr President , the Group of the Party of European Socialists in this Parliament agrees with the report that Mr Berend has just presented and congratulates the author , both on the quality of his conclusions and on his flexibility , which ensured that the different groups were able to incorporate amendments in committee . 
It must be remembered that , currently , the European Union ' s overall competitiveness is , in general terms , 81 % of that of the United States of America and that this figure will only improve if the figure for our competitive units , that is the regions , also improves . Furthermore , this is at a time when technological development , economic globalisation and our problems , which are enlargement and the single currency , demand that the regions , as well as businesses and individuals , make more of an effort to be competitive . 
The European Commission ' s sixth report presents very valuable conclusions . 
I shall summarise two of those highlighted by the rapporteur , one positive and one negative . 
The first is that important advances have been made in regional and social cohesion throughout the Union and that the Community Funds have been a major , although not decisive , factor in reducing regional inequalities . 
The negative conclusion is that the great effort made has been more efficient in harmonising the European regions ' GDP and productivity than in harmonising its levels of unemployment . 
It is therefore necessary to link structural financing more closely to job creation . 
This , Commissioner , is the first commandment for the coming period . 
Thus , Mr President , I ask my fellow Members to approve this report and I ask the Commission , as other speakers have done , to take good note of the conclusions of their sixth periodic report when they address the programming for the period 2000 - 2006 . 
