Madam President , on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party and European Democrats , I want to express our most profound feeling of solidarity with the families of Fernando Buesa , an elected representative of the Basque people , and Jorge Díez , a member of the Basque police force . We also naturally want to express our solidarity with the whole of the Basque Socialist Party . 
In recent times , in this House , we have sadly had to discuss the various faces of extremism in Europe . 
It does not matter what banner these come under because , in the end , they are all different expressions of the same thing . 
Faced with these , we democrats cannot resign ourselves to the peace of the dead . On the contrary , we must take strength from knowing that the only social division which exists in the Basque Country is the abyss which separates those who kill , and those who support and express understanding for the latter , from the vast majority of the Basque people who simply want to live in peace and freedom . 
 ( Loud applause ) 
Madam President , on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party , I must indicate my complete and categorical condemnation of the terrorist attack on 22 February in Vitoria which took the lives of the socialist MP and spokesman in the Basque parliament , Fernando Buesa , and his bodyguard , Jorge Díez . 
In a country governed by the rule of law and which is a member of the European Union , it should be possible for all ideas and options to be defended , provided that this occurs democratically and with respect for the rights of the individual and the principles and values of justice , freedom and economic and social progress on which the Union is based . The transgression of these principles is simply not acceptable , as clearly indicated in the Treaties . 
There is no justification in our society for terrorist acts such as the one which took the lives of Fernando Buesa and Jorge Díez , particularly when the former was a freely elected representative of the Basque people . 
We pray that these are the last victims in a process which , as you said , Madam President , has seen much barbarism . We pray that a way forward can be found which will allow the Basque people to live together in peace . 
