Mr President , at the Second International Conference of Socialist Women held in Copenhagen in 1910 , it was decided that the main demand of the time , that of a woman ' s right to vote , should be linked to the women ' s question as a whole and that ( as also stated in the relevant resolution ) Women ' s Day must be accorded an international dimension and be thoroughly prepared for . 
It is also worth noting that International Women ' s Day has since been banned in all those countries in which fascism and racism came to power during and between the war years . 
In 1910 , a woman ' s right to vote was on the agenda . 
Today , we are focusing upon the ways in which more women might be able to participate in the decision - making process . 
Women are no homogenous collective . 
Women belong to different social classes . Women have different individual needs and interests . 
Irrespective of where we are and notwithstanding our class , race or religion and whether we stay at home or go out to work , it is nonetheless a fact that , in all areas of society , the structures are such that we are thoroughly subordinate to men ( albeit with a few individual exceptions , it is perhaps best to add ) . 
In my own country , Sweden , a number of political parties have , in recent years , voluntarily introduced quota allocation by gender as a feature governing the ways in which political assemblies are constituted and run . 
This has led to an increase in the number of women involved in political decision making which , in turn , has provided opportunities for further research . 
What happens when more women take an active and equal part in political decision making ? 
What has so far emerged is that the agenda has changed - and when the agenda changes , so too of course do the types of decisions made . 
When the talk turns to quota allocation by gender , the word " qualifications " also crops up . 
What is interesting is that the qualifications demanded are rarely defined . 
It often looks as if men today , as in the past , always have the least defined qualifications . 
Being a man therefore seems , in itself , to be synonymous with maximum competence . 
This way of seeing things I consider to be proof of spectacular incompetence on the part of many of today ' s decision makers . 
Earlier this year , we requested , here in this Chamber , that 8 March be made into an international holiday . 
In anticipation of this request being met , I now want to take the opportunity of wishing all socialist women success with the " Women ' s World Marches " which are to begin this spring on International Women ' s Day . 
This is a world - wide activity which will focus upon violence against women and female poverty throughout the world . 
Finally , I want to say , as Commissioner Patten said when he drew the previous debate to a close , that the ideal police officer would be a black grandmother . 
We do not have any such officers , but black grandmothers are in fact to be found . 
Mr President , the place of women in politics is an important matter that is worthy of more than our trying to outbid each other in terms of political correctness . 
Undoubtedly there are too few women involved in politics . 
It is not absolutely certain that the predominance of men in the party machinery alone is responsible . 
In France , 95 % of elected representatives are town councillors . 
The vast majority of them are not members of any party . 
In the authorities of the French departments , the leading French party is that of independent elected representatives , in right - wing or left - wing categories . 
In order to be elected as a local councillor , you just have to want to be elected . 
But access to national responsibilities often depends upon the introduction to politics provided by such local mandates . 
Our Group wants to encourage the fair representation of men and women in the institutions of the European Union . 
That is why we reject the policy of quotas and positive discrimination , whether it is in favour of women or supposed social minorities . 
The policy of minorities , while neglecting the deep - seated unity of the human family , to establish superficial divisions , is a dangerous threat to the cohesion of the social fabric and the equilibrium of our democratic system . 
On the one hand , if we establish quotas for women , why do we also not create quotas according to age or ethnic group , quotas of Catholics , of workers , of those who wear glasses . 
The establishment of social quotas in favour of the very smallest categories would be no more ludicrous than establishing quotas of women . 
With such a philosophy it would no longer be necessary to organise elections or administrative competitions . 
It would be sufficient to determine the composition of the ministries and assemblies by means of a statistical calculation . 
The policy of quotas can only increase the disaffection of the voters with regard to politics by once again giving them the feeling that everything takes place behind their backs . 
On the other hand , such a policy shows a deep contempt for women . 
A woman must not attain political or administrative responsibilities automatically thanks to the implementation of the quota but by having her own merits and skills recognised . 
Ladies , have you so little pride that you would be prepared to hold a ministerial office or wear the sash of an elected representative by virtue of the mathematical odds of the quota ? 
Women deserve more than a quota . 
It is by reviving the principle of meritocracy that we shall improve in quantity and quality the presence of women in the decision - making process in quantity and quality . 
I would like to thank the Minister and the Commissioner for their speeches and for committing themselves before the European Parliament on the crucial matter we are discussing today . 
The presence of women in decision - making bodies , in particular , is a question of democracy . 
All citizens , both men and women , should be able to see , to feel that they are genuinely represented by those they have elected and those who rule . 
If we consider the fact that more than half the population is made up of women but that that there are many more men than women present in these decision - making bodies , it is clear that we are still far from true democracy . However , it is also a question of political agendas . 
In addition to making up the majority of the population , women are also the most dynamic element in society : it is women who have made the greatest contribution to the creation of new enterprises in Europe in recent years ; a greater percentage of young women obtain irregular work contracts than men , and in many of our regions , they are the main feature of the innovation , training , performance and flexibility development model . 
Out of a sample of women who work in and around Milan , where I live , 90 % said that they do not have enough time to do all they need to in a day . 
Women work an average of 60 hours a week , which is 20 hours longer than men . 
The price paid by women for following their desire to be protagonists in all spheres is that they never have enough time . 
If this is true , and it is , any appropriate policy which aims to find positive solutions to these problems must start from this point . 
Laws , programmes and interventions must be implemented which are well - constructed , coordinated and audacious , in order to encourage the formation of new cultural , economic , social , institutional and political ruling classes whose modernity is characterised by the involvement of women . 
Much has been achieved on many issues in Europe , but we are still far from resolving the question of equal representation . 
I agree with the Commissioner that it is time for the European political sphere - the entire European political sphere - to represent women and men on an equal footing , and for decisive action to be taken in this matter . 
Mr President , before I came here for today ' s sitting , I was watching Finnish television . 
In Finland , an honorary company of the Finnish army was saluting the new President of the Republic , with the words " Good morning , Madam President . " 
You perhaps know that , in Finland , the president is not just the leading public figure or political leader , but she is also commander - in - chief of the armed forces , so this was quite an interesting and historic occasion . 
During the Finnish presidential term , a report was produced that reveals an image of the whole decision - making process , and , on the basis of this report , I hope that the Commissioner proposes legally binding ways of improving the position of women in decision making . 
I urge you all , women of the Right , to listen to Mrs Lulling , because she told us why quotas were needed and , if any of us has sufficient experience of political life , it is she . 
Finally , I would like to say that it is now essential that we also raise this issue at the Intergovernmental Conference . 
I appeal to you , ladies and gentlemen , not to vote in favour of the proposal tomorrow to moderate the contents of point 4 , to prevent gender democracy from being discussed at the Intergovernmental Conference . 
Mr President , Madam President - in - Office of the Council , Commissioner , despite the progress made in terms of legislation and despite the complaints that we all utter from time to time on the subject of sexual inequality and sexual discrimination , the causes of these practices are still present in the amendments that have been tabled to this resolution . 
This means that we need to amend policies in various areas if we are to guarantee that women can participate on equal terms in the decision - making process . 
We know that this area is proving more difficult to resolve , both because women still bear the main responsibilities in family life and because there is still prejudice and personal interest standing in the way of genuine participation by women in various areas which involve greater responsibility . 
The truth is that the scant participation of women in centres of political representation and decision making demonstrates a democratic deficit which is incompatible with genuine democracy . 
It is therefore essential for the various directives on equality to be complied with and for the Council , the Commission and each Member State strictly to respect the commitments they have made , particularly at the Beijing Conference . 
Madam President - in - Office of the Council , Commissioner , I am a right - wing Member of Parliament but I have the same battles as my colleagues in supporting and assisting fellow citizens in my country to gain power and access to decision - making posts , which should be feasible not only in the political arena but clearly also in all sectors of society . 
Quite simply , I would say that there are several ways in which to attain positions of power and I am particularly against the system of quotas , because I believe it is especially contemptuous of women and I come from a country where parity has just been achieved . 
It is quite logical , it is consistent ! 
It should have existed for a long time because women represent more than half of society and it seems quite clear to me that it is natural for them to represent at least 50 % , if not more , of those within decision - making bodies and , inter alia , in the political arena . 
So , there should be no positive discrimination to include women . 
Woman are capable of getting themselves included because they are pragmatic and full of common sense . 
When I see that we are asking for training for women in politics , I want to say - no , definitely not . 
Let us impose training for male and female candidates in politics - but why especially compel women to undergo training ? 
That simply amounts to acknowledging their inferiority . 
But I do know that we have never felt inferior to men , particularly in politics . 
So I believe that we are conducting this battle to assist our fellow countrywomen to achieve decision - making power , to gain responsible posts in the political arena , but I believe that it will only be achieved if we completely change the way people think . 
We shall all have to be sufficiently strong to force our political leaders to voluntarily impose women ' s participation in the political decision - making process . 
Mr President , Minister , Commissioner ,  " Women are half of heaven "  , a successful man once said . 
But when it comes to important decisions and priorities , there is a lack of women ' s voices . 
Women , who constitute more than half of the population , are heavily under - represented within political , economic and social fields . 
That is unacceptable in a democracy . 
Where equality is concerned , the gulf between the actual and the ideal is nowhere more apparent than in the area of decision making . 
If we are to achieve a balance , a concrete action plan with a definite timetable is required . 
An important part of such a plan would be a benchmarking system to guarantee women ' s full participation in power structures and decision making . 
I am therefore delighted that the Commissioner is well disposed towards a system of this kind . 
I propose that the EU ' s objectives for women in the area of decision making should be based upon the averaged - out achievements of the three most successful Member States within each area , with the Member States each submitting a report annually which will then have to be evaluated . 
Women are the foremost victims of human rights abuses such as rape , sexual offences , domestic violence and the trade in women , but they are under - represented on the legal and legislative bodies which pronounce upon these crimes . 
The latter are consequently accorded low priority , and the perpetrators are often not prosecuted . 
Women are the prime victims of armed conflicts but are under - represented in peace - keeping efforts , conflict resolution and reconstruction work . 
In the resolution , we therefore urge the Member States to increase the proportion of women involved in all aspects of conflict resolution and peace - keeping . 
The call for women ' s participation in decision making on an equal footing with men is not only a demand for social justice and democracy ; it is also essential if women ' s experience and knowledge are to be utilised to the full . 
Not to use women ' s talents in decision making is an unacceptable waste . 
Women should not only be " half of heaven " but should also be entitled to take their share of responsibility for decisions which affect our entire planet . 
Mr President , I would like to congratulate the President - in - Office of the Council and Commissioner Diamantopoulou on the excellent speeches they have made today . 
We have high hopes for what you will achieve . 
We are at the start of a millennium and a century which we hope will be decisive for women and for their opportunity to occupy decision - making positions . 
We want this opportunity to bring substantial changes to our lives in society at large , we want democracy to be synonymous with equality between men and women , and we do not want women to be excluded socially or economically as is still happening today . 
Furthermore , we want values that women consider important , such as peace , fraternity , equality , justice , security and environmental protection , to be the guiding spirit for life in the European Union and , if possible , throughout the world . 
In order to achieve this , women must be given the opportunity to combat the inertia of a society which has , until now , been essentially imbued with masculine values . 
We know from our own experience that freedom and the ability to decide are not given freely but must be fought for . 
Let us continue to fight and ensure that this century brings us victory : not over men , not over anyone , but the victory of equality between men and women . 
We therefore cannot afford to miss any more opportunities , and the great challenge confronting all Europeans now , and particularly women , concerns the new economy and the new information technologies . 
The Lisbon Summit to be held at the end of this month is very much geared towards women . 
The rate of employment in Europe , which is much lower than in the United States and Japan , must be increased . 
We must therefore have many more women in work , and working in the new jobs in which the EU has a shortfall . 
I would therefore like to ask the Council and the Commission what proposals they will be presenting at the forthcoming Lisbon Summit to ensure that the new economy and the new Europe we want to build will definitely include equality between men and women . 
Mr President , Commissioner , the reason why I was so pleased with your intervention was that you had the courage to list the Member States where the political representation of women is a success , such as , for example , in Finland , France and Sweden , and equally , you had the courage to list the Member States where things in this respect are not going so well , such as , for example , my own country and Greece too , which you forgot to mention . 
Moreover , I have heard that for the next elections , it appears that very few women will feature on the electoral lists in Greece . 
I think this is a very sad state of affairs . 
I appreciate your courage because I think that it is high time that we in the European institutions started to offer concrete instruments to help put more women on the political agenda . 
This is why I think it is important that this Parliament continues to press for quotas and that this is openly included in the resolution . 
I myself , Commissioner , am a product of quotas . 
I do not believe that any of the MEPs will be able to prove that I am any less competent as a result . 
It appears that the meritocracy in a number of our European countries is still so biased in favour of males that women simply do not stand a chance . 
It is true that a number of countries in the European Union have already introduced quotas , and you yourself made reference to Belgium , Commissioner , where it has not really taken off . 
Hardly surprising , would you not agree , Mrs Avilés Perea , not because we failed to find the necessary candidates , but because recent scientific research , instigated by the Commission , has shown that quotas are , in fact , only useful if women are placed in the appropriate safe seats . 
This is why we need to be sensible about applying quotas . 
Indeed , Minister , we should strive for a democracy based on equal representation as a new social contract . 
But we should draw the necessary conclusions from this . 
The electoral system which corresponds most closely to this model is the one - for - one system , as is being applied in Sweden on a voluntary basis . 
I would suggest the following : where possible , apply it on a voluntary basis , where there is reluctance , impose it . 
I hope that in the fifth action programme , Minister and Commissioner , benchmarking will enable the best practices of those countries to be carried through , for it is time that our groups gained an understanding of this . 
Mr President , I too should like to congratulate the Commissioner and the President - in - Office of the Council for their solid recommendations and , above all , for their proposals . 
Because it has been said that men do not usually get involved in discussions on women ' s rights , I thought I might contribute the views of a contemporary politician and intellectual , Francis Fukuyama , to today ' s debate . 
In an article entitled " If women ruled the world "  , he maintains that if women were more involved in politics , the world would certainly not be so wedded to violence . 
Athena , the goddess of wisdom and war , may have been a female model in Ancient Greece , but the influence exercised by women today can act as a catalyst to stop militarisation and promote peace . 
There are , therefore , serious grounds , over and above justice between the sexes , for distributing public offices and political and economic power fairly and evenly between men and women . 
Women devote their entire lives to the endeavour to protect life and the environment through dialogue , reconciliation , an understanding of different views and resolving differences by peaceful means . 
These female virtues can offer an alternative to today ' s culture of violence and institute a new political culture and a fairer and more prosperous society for everyone . 
That is why the Intergovernmental Conference must introduce into the Treaty the principle of balanced representation of women and men in all the institutions of the European Union and in all democratic institutions and political decision - making centres throughout the Community . 
Mr President , why do women need their rightful share in political decision making ? 
And how should we achieve this ? 
We all agree on the fact that it needs to be done and why it is necessary . 
It is a demand for simple justice and for democracy and , as such , a condition for political legitimacy . 
But if we look into how to achieve this , the opinions are greatly divided . 
Is it sufficient to provide information and training and to create practical conditions or should we give preferential treatment , much like the quota system for the electoral lists of the political parties ? 
And is it then up to the state , in other words the legislative , to impose such measures on political parties ? 
Or should we even consider a system in which 50 % of seats are reserved for women in elected bodies ? 
This discussion , which is being held in some parts of Europe and here too under the French banner of parité , touches the very core of democracy , and is also about the political significance which we are prepared to accord to being a woman . 
In my opinion , the political battle should be fought at a political concept level rather than at a gender level . 
I am a great fan of voluntary quotas on electoral lists , without which , in fact , I would not be here today . 
Like Mrs Van Lancker , I am a product of such a measure . 
In my opinion , though , the state should not and must not use coercion to interfere in the internal affairs of political parties , at the risk of jeopardising democracy itself . 
In other words , the means which we employ to give women their rightful place within the political democracy should not lead to a system of gender apartheid . 
We would , in this way , violate democracy . 
Mr President , today ' s debate is devoted to the subject of the composition of decision - making bodies and changes to the decision - making system in Europe . 
We have entered a new period in which there is a fairly full institutional framework and in which women are well represented in all sectors , education , work , culture . 
The problem which we have to deal with is how to change the composition of the decision - making centres . 
The debate is a deeply political one . 
There are two approaches . 
The first is a policy of persuasion . Gradually everyone will be persuaded that women can become involved . 
Three comments : the first is based on the fact that women are able . I can , therefore all women can . 
How do we respond therefore to the fact that women are excluded ? We are able but the rest of the female population is not ? 
Here lies the danger of female arrogance in politics . 
Because women have to deal with different realities . 
Because they have fewer opportunities . 
Because they have a different level of education . 
Because they have to face social obstacles . Because they never have time to deal with matters of public interest . 
The second comment is that we need to persuade the political leaders . 
Not necessary ! 
They have all been persuaded ! 
There is not one male politician who does not agree to the involvement of women . 
There is not one party , from the far left to the far right , which does not stress the need for women to take part . 
On paper ! 
Thirdly , we must expect things to change gradually . 
The women ' s conference in Beijing brought an important point to light . 
With the rate at which the representation of women is developing at international level , it will take 2 , 300 years to achieve a balance between men and women . 
As far as Europe is concerned , as far as the European Parliament is concerned , where there is a quota for the involvement of women , it will take 25 years to achieve balanced representation . 
The second approach is a compulsory legislative commitment on the representation of women . 
Quotas alone are not enough . 
If only a legislative decree were all it took to change centuries of history . 
On this we are clear . Quotas are one of the ways , one of the policies needed to bring about change . 
Finally , on the question of whether , as the product of quotas , we can be proud , I would reply categorically that I would be very proud to be the product of a quota because it would mean that I had managed to impose quotas on Greece , where the level of representation of women is 5 % . 
Thank you , Mrs Diamantopoulou . 
I have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to Rule 37 ( 2 ) . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow morning . 
Floods in Mozambique
The next item is the Commission statement on flooding in Mozambique . 
Mr Patten has the floor on behalf of the Commission . 
The Commission is following with very great concern , as I know all honourable Members will be , the emergency situation in Mozambique . 
The continuing torrential rains throughout the southern African region aggravated by the Cyclone Eline have led to the displacement of large numbers of people and there has been considerable damage to housing and infrastructure . 
About 800 000 people appear to have been affected by the floods , about 300 000 are in urgent need of food and other types of humanitarian assistance . 
Several people have lost their lives , many have disappeared , many have been injured . 
The government of Mozambique has appealed for humanitarian aid from third countries . 
The international community including the United States of America , Switzerland , South Africa , Ireland , Norway , Denmark , Italy , Sweden and the Netherlands have to date provided substantial assistance . 
My colleague Poul Nielson is literally on his way to Mozambique this afternoon and evening together with the Portuguese Secretary of State to assess the situation on the ground . 
Mr Nielson will be happy to report back to Parliament on the findings of his mission . 
Just before I say a word about the assistance which has been given by ECHO so far , perhaps I can be allowed to make three rather personal remarks . 
First of all , from 1986 to 1989 , I was an overseas development minister and I formed a particular attachment to the people of Mozambique . 
They were bravely dealing then with huge environmental and political problems , with the problems of poverty and the consequences of a bloody war . 
If ever a country deserved help from aid donors it was Mozambique . 
Secondly , that feeling has been confirmed by the real efforts which Mozambique has made in the last few years to build a strong and prosperous economy and a stable society . 
Thirdly , we spent much of this afternoon in this Chamber discussing conflict prevention , how one could prevent crises happening or how one could respond to crises more effectively . 
We talked about the importance of the Commission developing a series of headline goals for non - military actions related to crises and , if I may say so , if ever there was a case where that is relevant , it is the disaster which has overwhelmed Mozambique . 
Let me turn to the assistance provided so far . 
Last week ECHO decided to allocate EUR 1 million for flood relief , of which 600 000 will be dispersed through the Spanish Red Cross and 150 000 through MSF Luxembourg , for operations in Mozambique and EUR 250 000 to Botswana through the German Red Cross . 
These NGOs will address the most urgent need which is to move people in danger to more secure areas as well as providing health care , water and sanitation . 
ECHO is currently preparing a second decision for a further EUR 2 million This decision will be implemented through UNICEF , Action Contre La Faim , COSV , Nuova Frontera and Vireaid pending , of course , the reception and examination of their final proposals . 
These NGOs will be concentrating on the areas of water and sanitation , provision of shelter , plastic sheeting , jerry cans , blankets , those sorts of things . 
They will be concentrating on the reinstallation of displaced people , on the further prevention of outbreaks of malaria , cholera and other communicable diseases , on the provision of supplementary food to malnourished and children at risk , on the provision of seeds and tools , on food security , on the rehabilitation of essential animal health structures and on the training of village livestock promoters . 
A third decision will be considered in the light of the mission of Commissioner Nielson . 
The Commission is also preparing a medium - term Community response combining NGO co - financing with European Development Fund operations to help Mozambique to respond to the crisis situation in re - establishing the rapid pace of growth that Mozambique had worked so hard to achieve . 
It is envisaged that this response would link the current phase of emergency through to re - construction within a three to four years time horizon . 
At times like this we are all aware of how much more we need to do to prevent disasters and to deal expeditiously with the disasters that we are not able to prevent . 
I am not sure that I can add very much at this stage to the analysis of what went wrong and what we can do better but obviously we must learn any lessons that are required from this terrible calamity . 
I repeat , Commissioner Nielson will be happy to report to Parliament when he returns from Mozambique and the scene of the disaster . 
Mr President , Commissioner , Mozambique is a young African country which has made heroic efforts to recover from the underdevelopment resulting from two decades of civil war and to adapt to democracy . 
The credit for Mozambique ' s success story must be shared equally by its government , by the opposition , but above all , by the people of Mozambique . 
There is a risk , however , that all the effort that has been made in recent years , after all the problems with the peace agreements , with which we are all familiar , will have been wasted as a result of the natural forces that have been unleashed on Mozambique over the last few weeks . 
The current figures reaching us on the extent of the disaster are terrifying , as the Commissioner has already said : around one million people homeless and more than one hundred thousand on top of roofs or trees , waiting for a helicopter to come and save them . 
There have already been hundreds of deaths . 
The EU and some of its Member States , including my own , have provided emergency financial aid , perhaps a little later than they should have , but they have done so , as have the United States and various countries in the region , particularly South Africa . 
It is now obvious that the main priority is for rescue helicopters , followed immediately by food aid and other emergency humanitarian aid . 
Although these floods began three weeks ago , the whole world has finally begun to wake up to the dire straits Mozambique currently finds itself in : there are thousands of people whose lives are hanging by a thread and who will soon die unless we arrange transport , particularly air transport , to get them out of the situation they are in . 
This is undoubtedly the greatest priority at the moment : search and rescue transport and emergency humanitarian aid , including food aid . 
I would like to emphasise , however , that the EU and the rest of the world must not limit their aid to Mozambique to the emergency that we are now discussing . 
We must be aware of the aftermath of the floods . 
It is therefore now becoming urgent for us to start considering how we can find financial resources to rebuild the infrastructure that has been destroyed and without which Mozambique cannot continue on the path towards development on which it set out a few years ago in such a promising way . 
Rebuilding infrastructure is crucial , because otherwise there can be no development . It is also time for some creditor countries to think about writing off or reducing Mozambique ' s debts . 
If nothing is done now , we will be letting all the effort that we have made in the past to help Mozambique in its development go to waste . 
I therefore hope that the visit by Commissioner Nielson and representatives of the Portuguese presidency this week will enable us to treat this extremely important issue with the seriousness it deserves . 
Mr President , it has already been said that , after a war which engulfed the country in misery , Mozambique is now facing a natural disaster of terrifying proportions . 
Although it is currently impossible to calculate how many people have died , we do know that around 80 000 are in imminent danger of drowning and 300 000 have lost their homes and crops . 
They urgently need aid such as food , water and shelter in order to survive . 
This immediate need will subsequently be replaced by a requirement for medicine to prevent epidemics , which have apparently already broken out , and aid for reconstruction . 
However , the aid needed now is difficult to get through , despite the efforts of the NGOs , because the roads , bridges and railway lines are damaged . 
Helicopters are therefore needed . 
Apparently there are only five at the moment to rescue about 80 000 people from trees . 
The machinery mobilising the aid is too slow . 
The PSE Group of this House has suggested that preventing natural disasters , including preventing conflicts , is the best way of avoiding situations like the one now being suffered by the people of Mozambique . 
I must remind you in particular of the efforts of Mr Rocard during the previous term . 
The European Commission responded in 1994 by setting up a disaster preparedness programme known as DIPECHO . This was intended to be proactive and , using a regional approach , to prevent disasters or at least to minimise their effects on the population . 
However , Africa is surprisingly not included in the DIPECHO plans . 
Mozambique , which is now suffering a foreseeable disaster , just as the famine now threatening in Ethiopia was foreseeable , is excluded from these plans . 
The DIPECHO agenda includes south - east Asia , Central America and the Caribbean . 
This is reasonable and we support this , but we have to ask the Commissioner , why not Africa ? 
The PSE Group has always supported the Commission ' s humanitarian aid policy . 
We have always supported ECHO , its policies and its actions , even some which have been disputed by certain bodies . We believe that solidarity must be the distinctive feature of the EU ' s external action . 
In view of all this , we also believe the time has come to demand a redoubled effort by the Commission and the Member States , on behalf of those who are now drowning in Mozambique . 
The EUR 1 million which has so far been made available is completely inadequate in view of the needs which have been assessed by the Mozambican Government at 65 million dollars . 
The time has also come to demand greater efficiency . 
We hope that the debate at the beginning of this afternoon , the Commissioner ' s knowledge of the situation in Mozambique and the visit by Mr Nielson will lead to a major effort being made by all sides to help Mozambique . 
Mr President , the situation in Mozambique is of the greatest urgency . 
Each day , each hour of delay costs many lives . 
There are only a few helicopters available to save tens of thousands of victims . 
The water levels continue to rise . 
Starvation and epidemics seem inevitable . 
It is as if the whole world is looking on , helplessly . 
The question is whether the Commission has reacted with sufficient alertness . 
I must admit that I have my doubts about this . 
Commissioner Nielson is flying out today . 
In European terms , this may be swift action , but given the emergency in Mozambique , this is probably very late . 
Unlike a number of Member States , the European Union has promised only very limited aid so far . 
What options does the Commission have , to offer effective help fast ? 
What could emergency and reconstruction aid consist of ? 
Can Commissioner Patten update us on the international coordination so far ? 
Why was it not possible to come to the rescue with a larger number of helicopters sooner ? 
The international community could also help Mozambique in an act of generosity by cancelling its debts , not only because the country has adopted a relatively sound policy , but especially because the extent of human suffering makes this absolutely essential . 
Mr President , all the reports and pictures reaching us bear witness to the scale of the tragedy afflicting Mozambique . 
There are thousands and thousands of displaced persons , a large number of dead , a lack of food and drinking water , and homes and crops have been destroyed . 
And this is happening in a country which , because it is one of the poorest in the world , does not have the minimal essential resources to help those affected as quickly as necessary . 
It is therefore vital for the EU and its Member States to intervene in a way which will enable us to provide this country and its people with rapid and exceptional help . 
We know that because of the dramatic nature of the situation , representatives of the Portuguese Presidency and Commissioner Nielson left today for Mozambique . 
We are pleased about this development , but what is more crucial than their presence is that they should guarantee that a short and medium - term action plan will be adopted and implemented immediately . This should be done in conjunction with the Mozambican government and this plan must be able to secure the aid that the situation requires . 
Furthermore , it was precisely for this reason , and also because I am convinced that what we really need now is urgent and exceptional action , that I spoke today to Commissioner Nielson - just before he left - in my capacity as Chairman of the Committee on Development and Cooperation . I asked him to join us , as soon as he returns , to inform us about how the situation is developing and particularly about the emergency measures which the EU has already taken , and those which we are going to take . 
Thousands upon thousands of human lives are in danger at the moment , and only international solidarity can save them . 
I would like to think that the EU is up to the task of providing the people of Mozambique with what they expect from us . 
Mr President , I would like to begin by emphasising , first of all , the timing and the topicality of this debate on the devastating floods in Mozambique . 
Indeed , these floods and appalling weather have resulted in many thousands of people losing their homes and all of their possessions , people who cannot return to their homes after the storms , purely and simply because their homes and their belongings no longer exist . 
They are no longer there , having been swept away in the torrents . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , there remains , however , one immediate problem : the need to provide help for all Mozambicans who have been afflicted , many of whose lives are in danger , in their flooded villages , hoping that they will be rescued . 
Most of these people can only be saved by aircraft , especially helicopters , of which it is clear that too few are in action . 
As the President of Mozambique , Joaquim Chissano , remarked in a dramatic appeal , each passing day may mean death for many Mozambicans . 
The EU must therefore mobilise resources immediately and effectively , in terms of quantity as well as quality , and it must employ the most rapid and appropriate means of achieving this . 
We must do this not only in line with basic humanitarian principles and out of solidarity , but also - and quickly - because we know that Mozambique is one of the poorest countries in the world . 
This means that its resources for coping with the tragedy and then setting about reconstruction are practically non - existent . 
We are also under an obligation to help because of another fact , the fact that Mozambique is one of the few African countries to have used democratic means to recover from the bloody civil war by which it was consumed for several years after it gained independence . 
It is true that Mozambique ' s democracy is still far from perfect , as shown by the way in which the results of the recent presidential elections were contested and doubts were cast upon them . 
But given this situation , which is so tragic for the people of Mozambique , we must not fail to provide an effective and appropriate response to the appeals of Mozambique ' s leaders , both those in the government and those in opposition , who , out of a sense of responsibility , have resisted from resorting to violence again as a means of solving their problems . 
Mr President , Commissioner , I would like to add my voice to all those who have already spoken in order to draw this House ' s attention - which was not really necessary , but it had to be done - to the appalling tragedy unfolding in Mozambique . 
I have some figures here , which I believe are the most up - to - date ones available . More than three hundred people have already died , six hundred and fifty thousand have become displaced , two million four hundred thousand people have been cut off , with eighty - five thousand needing to be evacuated , some of whom are in treetops , others on roofs . 
As has already been said , helicopters are the priority and it is equally important that there is no delay in providing this humanitarian aid . 
Otherwise , apart from the tragedy created by the floods , the next tragedy will arise : that of a lack of aid to the people , who will die of hunger and disease and who will die in the floods . 
This would be a real tragedy and one which would weigh heavily on the conscience of us all . 
The Commissioner said a while ago that he had emotional ties with Mozambique , as I have myself , and that he therefore understands the whole tragic situation taking place and what is at stake . 
I hope that the mission by Commissioner Nielson and the Portuguese State Secretary will provide the information that this House needs in order to understand the current situation , and what the most urgent needs are , so that we can help the people of Mozambique , who genuinely deserve our help , in their struggle for development . 
 . 
Could I thank Commissioner Patten for coming here at short notice to respond to our wish to debate this very critical issue and as others have said , the television pictures that we have seen of the stricken Limpopo valley in Mozambique are absolutely heartbreaking . 
Children have lost parents , families are bereft , hopeless , helpless and they have lost absolutely everything . 
But of course , as others have said , this whole thing was predicted and predictable and the slow and very inadequate , woefully slow and woefully inadequate response is something that should dictate now that we actually do invest seriously in disaster preparedness . 
There is a case as the Commissioner mentioned for the implementation of a rapid response facility and rapid response force in situations like this to deal with crises such as we have there because we simply did not have the strategies or the logistical preparations in place . 
This morning there were seven helicopters and of course those helicopters are only working in the Gaza region . 
The Save river has huge flooding problems as well but no one has even been there yet . 
85 % of the work is within an hour of Maputo so we really have no idea what the extent of the problem is . 
Also I would like to say Commissioner that European citizens want to know exactly what ECHO is doing . 
Most of us here would not wish to boast about EUR 3 million . 
We need far more and I hope that the Commissioner will come back with those promises and also with an initiative to coordinate some of the efforts there . 
Clearly also we need to see a massive airlift . As you say tons of food , water purification equipment , tents , blankets . 
Are we really prepared for the next relief and rehabilitation stage which you mention because that again will demand massive resources . 
Are we ready to pay for those resources ? 
Mozambique is , of course , one of the poorest countries in the world , but one of Africa ' s great success stories with its work on economic growth , on poverty reduction , on democracy in spite , of course , of massive debt pressures . 
Mozambique is a wonderful example but now likely to suffer enormous hardship as a result of what they have endured . 
How badly the disaster sets Mozambique back is what we should be looking at now and that depends on the sheer quality and quantity of international relief for that stricken country . 
Thank you , Mrs Kinnock . 
Mr Nogueira , we note your interest and concern about this subject but your Group is not down to speak and I must abide by the Rules of Procedure . 
The debate is closed . 
Union Economy ( 1999 ) 
The next item is the report ( A5 - 0041 / 2000 ) by Mr Katiforis , on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , on the Commission document ' The EU Economy 1999 Review '  [ C5 - 0081 / 2000 - 2000 / 2046 ( COS ) ] . 
The report of the Commission presents an assessment of the current economic position of the European economy which it finds promising , especially in terms of the recent recovery of economic growth expected to lead to a reduction of unemployment to 8 % by the year 2001 . 
This picture in the opinion of your rapporteur has to be set against a background of sluggishness , of growth of only 1 . 9 % per year throughout the 1990s , despite instances of higher growth rates during that decade which we were , however , unable to consolidate . 
It would follow that if we do not wish the same old failures of the past to reassert themselves , we must use the current window of opportunity of improved economic performance in order to launch a new policy of transition into self - sustained higher growth levels in our economy . 
This is the challenge . 
Faced with this challenge the Commission recommended essentially that our economic policy merely should prolong our past stance which limits itself to setting right the monetary and fiscal fundamentals of the economy while for the rest putting faith in the markets to work their miracle without any further intervention by conscious social agents . 
In Europe , in your rapporteur ' s opinion , this is exactly the attitude that has served us badly over past years , not just once but repeatedly . 
Such an attitude has downside risks which I understand the ECOFIN Council is currently discussing . 
These risks involve a correction in the US economy and the future trend in oil prices and in long - term EU interest rates . 
Should any of these risks materialise in a negative fashion , what will be our response - more laissez faire or shall we have prepared ourselves better than in the last downturn ? 
It has been my proposal that Parliament must recommend an activist economic policy consisting of two main parts . 
One is to adopt the Commission ' s own excellent , outstanding econometric analysis , and ask the Council to transform it into a programme of action involving certain interconnected quantifiable targets of levels of investment growth and employment that would make our commitment to a policy of full employment operational and credible . 
A central plank of such a programme should be the raising of the level of investment of capital formation from 19 % , to which it has fallen over the decade , to at least 23 - 24 % of GDP , both in the private and in the public sector . 
To allow the public sector to take the necessary significant lead in investment policy , the Council would indeed have to sacrifice some of its most sacred cows . 
It would need to revise its negative attitude towards the big infrastructure programmes of trans - European networks , which have been gathering dust in the drawers for rather too long , to allow them to be financed on an adequate scale by means of European Community bonds and to accept an interpretation of the concept of budget deficits which would allow governments to borrow for purposes of investment without falling foul of the restrictions of the stability pact . 
This was the first pillar of my recommendation . 
The second pillar consisted of embracing a large number of structural reforms , privatisation , de - regulation proposals , as well as suggestions facilitating the transition to a knowledge - based economy which , as we know , constitutes the backbone of the proposals of the presidency for the Lisbon Summit . 
It has been repeatedly stated by expert opinion that the programme of structural reforms combined with an expansionary programme of investment and growth is capable of pulling the European economy out of its state of inertia while one - sided policies are condemned to fail . 
Unfortunately my colleagues of the People ' s Party aided and abetted by the Liberals in the Economic Affairs Committee found my approach unacceptable . 
I am glad that at least after five years of insistence they have found the target of full employment acceptable but I must say that simply referring to full employment without proposing a concrete programme towards achieving the targets smacks too much of lip service and is too unconvincing to serve as the political message of optimism that people expect from us , have been expecting from us rather too long . 
It is certainly not my task to judge other people ' s alliances but if the People ' s Party and the Liberals are so desperate to cement their alliance , let them at least propose something positive , something that has a chance of working , not repeat the same tired old platitudes , ideas that have so singularly failed us in the past , nor oppose other people ' s concrete efforts just for the sake of opposing them . 
I believe that the political message of this Parliament should consist of something more original than a mere rehash of the neo - classical economic mantra . 
Something more robust than a call to surrender to the fatalities of the market economy , something more decent than opposing dutiful aims but denying them the means of their realisation . 
The report which has come to you from the Economic Committee sins in all these respects . 
Unless it is restored in its original form by Parliament , accepting the amendments retabled by the Socialist Group , I must take the unusual but inevitable course of asking my Socialist colleagues and indeed anybody who believes that Parliament should speak a meaningful language to vote against the report that bears my name but that is no longer mine either in thinking or in conscience . 
Mr President , Mr Katiforis ' passion and conviction have prevented him from carrying out the usual task of a rapporteur in plenary which is to defend his report . 
Instead he has defended his own position which was not the one approved in committee . 
We clearly have different views , one of which is that we believe the development of the European economy can be regarded with confidence . 
Yesterday , when speaking to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , Commissioner Solbes specifically indicated that the prospects for this year and next for the European economy are excellent . 
Moreover , several countries were mentioned whose problem is what to do with the public surplus . 
They are having to choose , for example , between reducing taxes or reducing the public deficit , but clearly avoiding any price rises , or - so there is no misunderstanding - creating a special reserve for future situations in which welfare may be needed , given the EU ' s population growth . 
We are inclined to believe that a solid basis exists for this economic growth in the Union , now and in the coming years . It must be taken into account that we have an open , globalised and very competitive economy . 
In order to reach and even overtake the leading position of the United States of America , we must avoid interventionism , as proposed initially by Mr Katiforis , and also excessive intervention by the public authorities in the construction of certain infrastructures . 
Furthermore , the Member States refused to contribute more funds when we discussed Agenda 2000 which means that there will be little available over the next few years at Union level . 
However , we must stress the need to continue developing the construction of the European internal market which still has some serious flaws . 
There are still sectors such as air transport , energy and telecommunications in which , if we compare our unit cost with that of the USA or other countries which are equally competitive at international level , the cost supported by our companies is very high . 
This report contains information which shows that in order to create a new company the bureaucratic cost in the USA is EUR 500 and in the European Union , on average , it is EUR 1 600 . 
We therefore still have too much bureaucracy and intervention . 
It is only by complying with the essential agreements established with the programmes following on from the stability pact and by developing a market with less obstacles at all levels that we will reach the levels of competitiveness required by the European Union . 
Mr President , the passion that the previous speakers have acknowledged in Mr Katiforis , in my view , only served to call on the European Parliament to respond to the hope of dozens of millions of unemployed people , social outcasts and those living a precarious existence in our European Union . 
This is the objective , in respect of which he called upon the European Parliament : give hope to the people of Europe . 
There is indeed economic recovery , but it only marginally reduces unemployment in Europe . 
The votes of the PPE - DE and the Liberals have very considerably diminished , and even reversed , the meaning of his message . 
That is why we did not vote in favour of the report as amended by them , despite our efforts , and we shall not vote for it as it stands at the moment . 
What are the minimum conditions under which we would vote for this report ? 
First of all , the affirmation that there is room for a Europe of growth , but a Europe of sustainable growth , that particularly respects the commitments of the European Union at the conferences in Kyoto and Buenos Aires . 
There is an enormous amount of work to be done to keep to our commitments by the fateful year 2008 , by which time we shall have to return to 1990 levels of greenhouse gas emissions . 
A tremendous amount of work remains to be done in the field of transport , energy saving and even in substituting travel by communication via the Internet . 
Secondly , even the growth rate of 3 or 4 % , something we consider eminently feasible , will not be sufficient to reduce unemployment if we do not improve the job content of this growth . 
And we should say so very clearly , it will involve more savings on services , more third systems , more reductions in average working hours , whatever methods we adopt to achieve these things . 
Thirdly , we fully agree that it is necessary to reform labour relations in Europe , but that clearly means for us that we must protect and enrich the human capital . 
The lesson learned from the European experience is that where wages are lowest , where the salary ratio is the most flexible , unemployment is the highest and where wages are highest , where the social relations are the best regulated , the unemployment rate is the lowest . 
Mr President , I think that this policy will engender not hope , but deep disappointment in European workers . 
The vote adopted by our committee proves that it is not only the European Commission , ECOFIN and the Central Bank , but also the European Parliament which advocates and stands for an acutely neo - liberal economic and social policy which has already eroded the living and working conditions of workers and the wider working classes in the Member States of the European Union . 
Our committee emphatically rejected any attempt on the part of the rapporteur to use his report to introduce a different dimension into the debate on the economic situation in the European Union and to send the Commission and the Council the sort of message which the European Parliament should send out as the parliamentary body elected by the people of the European Union . 
Even the positive contribution of the international financial institutions and high - level experts , who gave the benefit of their concerns and ideas , failed miserably to muster any support . 
With this vote , the European Parliament has accepted serious liability towards the people who elected it , by supporting an extreme neo - liberal economic and social policy ; a policy which promotes the privatisation of absolutely everything , categorically opposes any form of public sector , overturns workers ' employment , wage , social and insurance rights , imposes a policy of budgetary austerity which is acutely anti - social and unpopular and acts on behalf of employers by asking workers to become more attractive and employable if they want to find a job . 
Our Group categorically condemns this perception and , in this sense , does not intend to support this resolution . 
It will be voting against it . 
Mr President , the report presented by the Commission on the Union Economy in 1999 appears to us to be mostly utter waffle as it scarcely shows why our performance remains hopelessly below the potential that the immense human resources of Europe should allow . 
Indeed , it is good to note that the forecast of 3 % growth for the year 2000 , which could have seemed rather bold when the Commission announced it in November 1999 , now has a serious chance of being achieved , even in the context of continued inflation , since the peak of 2 % for the euro zone in January , nevertheless remains quite minor compared with the past . 
But we have the impression that this growth , sustained firstly by the performance of the United States , and then by the productivity gains of the new economy , by the new information and communication technologies , is driven by the general world situation , even despite our handicaps . 
We are well aware of these handicaps , which must be remedied urgently - the structural inflexibility , the excessive mandatory levies . 
But let us not forget that there is another one , a new handicap , with the single currency . 
In fact , the unification of monetary policies and the gradual alignment of other policies imposes additional inflexibility on the different countries in the euro zone by making them behave in ways that are not necessarily suited to their structures and to their respective economic circumstances . 
This unification is considered to be positive by the Commission ' s report . 
But , in reality , we can no longer rule out the fact that it will lead to a less than optimum global situation . 
If you add the strangeness of a single currency that is not built upon a State , itself based upon a people , you can easily explain what remains a great mystery in Brussels , the markets ' suspicion of the euro . 
Indeed , it was possible to welcome the weakness of the single currency initially in 1999 , as it favoured growth in an unexpected way , but you cannot for ever hide the fact that it is , in fact , symptomatic of bad policies and bad operating conditions . 
Mr President , the present draft resolution is controversial . 
Given the topic it covers , this is hardly surprising . 
It is , after all , a fact that economists agree to disagree on most things , especially where the future is concerned . 
The carefree appeal made by the rapporteur for higher economic growth seems an attractive way of fighting high unemployment , but it is , in fact , a short - term policy . 
Even if he advocates sustainable growth , sustainability does not come into it . 
Given the environmental and demographic developments , if anything , we ought to encourage Member States to pursue a selective economic growth policy . 
More investments , production and consumption only generate short - lived prosperity . 
The use of energy and scarce raw materials should be drastically reduced
Other priorities are the repayment of high public debt and restructuring pension schemes . 
If Member States do not do anything about this , there will be even fewer means for care , education and other important public amenities in the future . 
An appeal in favour of a more pro - active government policy comes across as very odd . 
It does not take into account the latest Eurostat reports regarding rising inflation which , at 2 % , is now at its maximum permitted level . 
If , despite this , there is a desire to increase public spending , then those who go down this path will find that it is not long before the European Central Bank raises interest rates again . 
What the government can then achieve in the way of job creation will be cancelled out by the unfavourable developments for small and medium - sized enterprises , in particular . 
High unemployment in the European Union concerns all of us , especially now that the downward trend does not seem to be persisting . 
Promoting employment , however , is a long - winded affair and comes under structural policy . 
Member States , in particular , should adopt an effective policy . 
In order to achieve this , they must be given the necessary leeway . 
Rigidity by imposing social convergence criteria and other Community guidelines certainly does not create the necessary jobs . 
However , shifting the tax burden from labour to the use of raw materials and minerals is precisely what we need by way of a lasting contribution . 
Mr President , first of all , I would like to congratulate my colleague Giorgos Katiforis on the report he presented to us . 
Not the report he presented to us here today , but the one he presented to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , because politically speaking , these are two completely different reports . 
In very general terms , we could call the first report a left - wing one , as it addresses social issues as well as economic ones . 
The report we have before us now and which Mr Katiforis is reluctant to defend - and I think that he is right in this - is a hybrid report , from which the main conclusions have been removed , and is based on social concerns . 
What did Mr Katiforis actually propose and what has been taken out of the report ? 
He proposed an ambitious report , based on an optimistic Europe , which sought to establish quantified targets for the results it was seeking to achieve . 
And Europe has indeed achieved progress by means of quantified targets . 
Why , for example , was the proposal to increase Europe ' s active population to 75 % of the total population removed , when we currently have levels of around 60 % ? 
An active population of 60 % is very low compared with that of Japan or the United States and we cannot match those countries ' levels of production with such a low rate of employment . 
We therefore need to augment our rate of employment with jobs that are competitive . 
As has been advocated for the Lisbon Summit , we must prepare our workforce for the new technologies by giving them scientific training . 
We also need investment to grow at a faster rate . 
We are all familiar with the idea advocated by Mr von Wogau , according to which what we need is a flexible workforce . 
I would like to counter this with the example of Portugal , where employment laws are not flexible , and where unemployment stands at less than 5 %  - and has been steadily decreasing over the last few years - because investment is increasing , with Community support of course , at a rate considerably higher than the Community average . 
What we want , therefore , is for Europe to enjoy economic growth , but also be prepared to address social issues . 
Mr President , like many others , I want to thank Mr Katiforis for an interesting report . 
When I read the report and see the picture of the EU ' s economy that is described there , I think it is quite a worrying picture . 
Investment levels are too low , unemployment is still too high and there is insufficient growth . 
It is not , therefore , perhaps so strange that the euro is continuing to lose ground to other currencies , in spite of rumours to the effect that the European Central Bank is purchasing the euro on the quiet in order to support it . 
The rapporteur observes that stability is not an end in itself , which is something I agree with . 
There is far too much talk about stability , convergence and coordination and far too little about the factors which give rise to innovation and development . 
As far as I am concerned , EMU cooperation looms ponderously large as a colossus which will have difficulty keeping afloat in the present swelling economy . 
My conclusions about this differ completely , however , from those of the previous speaker . 
I believe we have to place our confidence in human resources , partly through a macro - economic policy which creates demand and potential new jobs and partly - and perhaps above all - by relying upon measures in the workplace such as training , democratisation and good social conditions . 
In this context , I can , in fact , see the EMU project ' s main weakness , for it is true that you cannot act like Superman and raise the European economies from above . 
Instead , you have to mobilise working people and the people out there in the Member States . 
Mr President , Commissioner , I have the feeling that some of the previous speakers have not read the 1999 annual report on the Union economy in its entirety and have made a conscious decision not to listen to my Group ' s spokesman , Karl von Wogau , for the document that we are debating today , and which has had a report written on it , points to the fact that the introduction of the euro has been a success . 
It points to the problems experienced in 1999 , when , notwithstanding the problems , there was currency and price stability , increased employment , the beginnings of a period of upturn , and it was possible to make a start on reducing unemployment . 
In terms of outlook , the document points to an upswing , to long - term prospects and the measures required to achieve this , which Karl von Wogau then proceeded to enlarge upon . 
I am pleased that the debate we have been having here has been a tough one , for it underlines the fact that there are various approaches to economic policy . 
We want to continue along the successful European path to growth and employment and a functioning internal market , to hasten our progress and supplement this with the necessary measures . 
The left - wing of this House does not want to continue along this path , rather it makes dramatic statements such as : what we need is state intervention , not the extension and consolidation of the market economy . 
State intervention has always led to a high level of debt , and a higher level of debt has always damaged growth and employment , as well as social justice . 
That is what the debate we are having is all about , on the subject of which I have this to say to you : we need more freedom and less state intervention . 
It is sound framework conditions and not state intervention that enables enterprises to create growth and employment . 
Mr President , the economic situation of the European Union from the viewpoint of the workers is eighteen million unemployed people , it is the generalisation of insecurity , of low wages , of deteriorating working conditions . 
The Commission has the cynicism to consider wage restraint as a positive factor , whereas in France alone , over three million workers receive a salary that is close to the poverty line and they barely survive any better than the other three million people kept unemployed by an insane economy . 
But you never speak of restraining the income of shareholders that is infinitely higher from the outset and which increases shockingly every year . 
What you have as a result are all these major trusts that cut jobs while their profits are high , and which often make staff redundant simply to make their share price rise on the stock market . 
Eleven thousand job losses at Hoechst and Rhone - Poulenc , twenty two thousand at Unilever , ten thousand at ABB / Alsthom Power , not to mention all the others . 
The economic growth on which you pride yourself only benefits a fortunate minority , the owners and shareholders of the large industrial and banking groups . 
But beware of the backlash from the workers and the unemployed , who we keep telling that everything is getting better and better while they find that their lives are not improving but , on the contrary , are getting worse . 
This is the key ideological struggle for Europe facing us . 
This debate , I think , has summed it up . 
The key political divide has been very obviously stated this evening , and it is no surprise that this issue has polarised the debate in a House which is known for its consensus and its carve - out politics , and I am delighted to see this difference of opinion made so clear , because this report is a radical one . 
This report is a wake - up call to Europe . 
This report recommends radical measures , which in essence will make it easier to employ people . 
It is as simple as that . 
The reason why we have such crippling unemployment rates in Europe is that it is too difficult in many cases to employ people because of the red tape and the regulation and the inflexibility of the labour markets . 
This is the only way to go forward , because the real way to deliver social justice in Europe - and after all that is what we are all here to do - is to deliver prosperity and opportunities and jobs . 
This report signals very clearly the most effective way to do that , because Europe has to wake up . 
It cannot create jobs just by government spending . 
It cannot create jobs by legislating to cut working hours , as if jobs were a cake that you carve up and divide between people . 
The real world simply does not work like that . 
And if Europe wants to be left behind , left behind to stagnation and to unemployment and to statism and to corporatism , than yes , vote against this report tomorrow . 
But if you want Europe to go forward and to start delivering to the people of Europe , then I would call upon you all to give your support to this report , because it will deliver those jobs , and it will deliver those opportunities , and it is the only way to do so . 
Mr President , the original version of the Giorgos Katiforis report had the great merit of making strong recommendations , based on the precise observations of the Commission report on the economic situation in Europe , for a European Union strategy capable of giving continuity and stability to the sustainable development prospects emerging this year for all the countries of our continent . 
These recommendations concerned the need for effective coordination of the Union ' s economic policies and the need to overcome the way that economic policy is managed separately from social policy , which has hitherto been a serious barrier to the definition of a coherent strategy for fighting unemployment and moving towards full employment . 
It is this absence of management of the European economy which is responsible , my dear Mr von Wogau , for the fall of the euro . 
The report also contained recommendations concerning the creation of a European research area and the promotion in all countries of the Union of converging measures on research , lifelong learning and employability which would overcome any sort of unfair competition between the States in the field of taxation . 
Lastly , the recommendations also incorporated an updated version of the proposals in President Delors ' White Paper on the promotion of a European project for the development of a common network of infrastructures and services . 
These recommendations , which , for the most part , are consistent with the guidelines in the Portuguese presidency ' s work programme and which will therefore be discussed at the Lisbon Summit , have been rejected or distorted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs of this Parliament , by a majority which only managed to achieve a fragile unity in its rejection of the idea of a European Union which is founded on the convergence of national policies and not just on the grouping together of markets . 
Mr President , this Parliament , which has shown itself to be highly Europeanist so many times , must , on this occasion , show that it can express a majority vote for a political union of Europe which is capable of dealing with market weak spots and failures . 
Mr President , Mr Katiforis ' s report is exciting . 
In its original form , it points the way towards a renewed economic policy which aims at something more than merely tightening up and balancing the economy . 
Now , finally , the EU ' s position is , of course , such that we can achieve high growth and seriously take up the fight against unemployment without jeopardising objectives such as price stability and a balanced budget . 
It is therefore sad that , in committee , the Group of the European People ' s Party and European Democrats and the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party should have voted down the proposals which take the fight against unemployment seriously . 
The debate and vote here in plenary ought to correct this . 
It is nonetheless gratifying that we should have united behind some of the strategically important proposals , namely that the Union ' s economic policy ought to prioritise investments , partly in order to involve all the Union ' s citizens in the information society , something which can also be of major significance from an economic point of view . 
I am also thinking of the importance of strengthening the applicant States ' links with trans - European networks in the shape of both physical forms of transport and IT infrastructure . 
This is important for growth but also in order to avoid gulfs developing between people , both within the EU and between the EU and the applicant States . 
The applicant States ought not merely to tag along behind but , instead , share the EU ' s ambition of becoming a world leader in the communications field . 
Society needs , therefore , to take responsibility for the rapid and vigorous expansion of a modern IT infrastructure which also reaches small companies , poor regions and ordinary citizens . 
We have that opportunity right now . Let us grasp it . 
Mr President , the advantage of speaking at the end of such a debate is that you can react to what has been said before . 
I would like to say that I strongly disagree with Mrs Villiers ' view that this is such an interesting debate . 
I think that the European Parliament is doing itself absolutely no favours by thinking only in terms of old categories and churning out old political concepts and visions . 
It would have been much better if we had actually made the effort to reach compromises and to develop a common vision . 
I think that , in this way , the European Parliament is excluding itself from the discussion at the very moment that an extremely interesting development is taking place in the European Union where a very wide , socio - economic agenda is being drawn up much more clearly . 
The Portuguese presidency has submitted a wide agenda of this kind for the extra summit in Lisbon . 
The Commission has done this in its five - year plan by listing one of the four priorities . 
The Commission document too , which is being drafted for the summit in Lisbon , takes precisely such a wide approach which covers different areas . 
I think that in adopting this wide socio - economic approach , the European Union is taking exactly the right line , not least because that is the economic entity on the basis of which policy is drafted . 
In this light , I think that the European Parliament ' s role will be limited in Lisbon , but also in the forum in June for which we might have an invitation , but are unsure as to the input we can have . 
Are we going to have nothing more to report than the fact that we are still stuck in a mould of old political contradictions ? 
 . 
 ( ES ) Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , firstly I must thank this House for its serious and detailed work . 
There is no doubt that the hearings of experts and the debates in committee have provided us with additional high - quality information . 
There is also no doubt that , throughout the debate this afternoon , we have heard differing opinions about the possible policies . 
However , I believe that there are also some elements of consensus . 
We all agree that the current economic conjuncture is good . 
We also agree about trying to further and benefit from this situation in order to improve conditions and about aiming for a definite improvement in employment . 
I will briefly comment on these issues before concentrating on the last point which I regard as the essential issue in today ' s debate . 
Yesterday , as some of you have noted , the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs referred to the improvement in the economic situation in Europe . 
We currently believe that this improvement , which we highlighted in the perspectives in November , may lead to even better results than initially forecast . 
Employment is growing at a good rate . 
Despite yesterday ' s figures , we certainly consider that the fact that inflation was around 2 % in December shows that this is an issue which must be pursued . However , the rate of underlying inflation demonstrates that the inflationist tendencies are due to certain very specific elements such as the rise in oil prices and exchange rate developments . 
When we submitted our report , we referred to the risks posed by growth . 
We basically highlighted the possibility of encountering difficulties in terms of growth in the USA , and therefore in other parts of the world , and of a sudden rise in inflation . 
This latter issue may be particularly significant if it causes cost - push inflation . This is why we are continuing to talk about the need for a wages policy compatible with the definitions of inflation which we want to establish . 
Parliament ' s analysis has highlighted another issue which is the development of risk in the stock markets . 
The Commission regards this as significant although we do not believe that this is the basic problem . 
Anyway , we currently have some excellent opportunities to do more . 
We all agree that , after a decade of very weak growth and intolerable unemployment , certain action must be taken . 
We need public and private investment . 
Our levels of research and development are too low compared with our competitors and our low level of employment reflects , among other factors , the imbalances in our labour market . 
Our aim must therefore be to make this reactivation of the economy long - lasting with strong growth and job creation . 
The latter element continues to be the Commission ' s fundamental objective , as we indicated in the Prodi document submitted for your debate at the Lisbon Summit , in that we are aiming for full employment in the medium term . 
What policy should we use to achieve these objectives ? 
In our opinion , the Union ' s economy is reactivating but we still have idle production capacity , not only in terms of physical capital but also new sources of jobs . 
The policy mix to be applied should specifically allow this capacity to be fully absorbed . 
We must define a macro - economic policy which aids growth . 
This is not an expansionist policy in the sense of growth for growth ' s sake . 
It is simply a budgetary policy which can be coherent with price stability but which also allows us to have an appropriate monetary policy which contributes to growth . 
This policy mix will undoubtedly be good for investment and will lead to growth . 
The EU ' s potential for growth must pay particular attention to certain factors , on most of which I believe we agree with Parliament ' s analysis . 
Firstly , private investment must be assisted . 
The Union must help to promote the spirit of enterprise and to generate employment in this way , but without forgetting public investment . 
This has been the major victim in recent years and any improvements in public finances must lead to improvements in public investment . However , this must be carried out with respect for our tax consolidation commitments . 
Our main support in the future must be for research and development and human capital . 
These are two of the principal challenges for the Lisbon Summit . 
It is essential that we tackle these challenges with quantified objectives and specific definitions . This will ultimately allow us to achieve our goal of clear improvements in productivity , thus enabling our society to grow , together with a rise in employment which will go some way towards making up the ground lost in recent years . 
This is the policy which the Commission has defended and will continue to defend in Lisbon . 
Common fisheries policy
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports : 
A5 - 0038 / 2000 by Mrs Attwooll , on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries , on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing a Community framework for the collection and management of the fisheries data needed to conduct the common fisheries policy ( COM ( 1999 ) 541 - C5 - 0302 / 1999 - 1999 / 0218 ( CNS ) ) ; 
A5 - 0037 / 2000 by Mrs Attwooll , on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries , on the proposal for a Council decision on a financial contribution from the Community towards the expenditure incurred by the Member States in collecting data , and for financing studies and pilot projects for carrying out the common fisheries policy ( COM ( 1999 ) 551 - C5 - 0303 / 1999 - 1999 / 0224 ( CNS ) ) . 
The proposals for a Council regulation on the collection and management of fisheries data and for a Council decision on a financial contribution in this respect are both very welcome . 
So is a joint debate on them since each can only be fully understood in the light of the other . 
I understand that they have been some five years in their gestation . 
With the review of the common fisheries policy due in 2002 , it is important that swift progress is now made . 
To take first the proposal for the Council regulation , this makes provision for Member States to collect a wider range of data relating to fisheries than required under previous regulations . 
Both biological and economic information are included . 
The proposal also makes provision for Member States to produce such data in aggregated form . 
Exactly which new data are to be collected and what is to be aggregated from these and existing data will be specified by an implementing regulation . 
The implementing regulation will establish a minimum Community programme and an extended Community programme . It appears that these programmes will not cover the whole range of potential data but will be selective , for example , by type of fish stock . 
The proposal for the Council decision allows for the making of the financial contribution by the Community to Member States engaged in the collection and management of data . 
It also allows the Commission itself to finance studies and pilot projects . 
The only apparent sanction for Member States that do not completely fulfil the requirements of the minimum programme under the regulation is that they will not be eligible for any financial assistance in respect to the extended programme . 
Two major areas of concern about the proposal were considered by the Committee . 
The first relates to the degree of involvement of the Commission . 
The original proposal simply allowed for the information being gathered to be transmitted to international organisations . 
The Commission would only receive a copy of any such transmissions if it requested one . 
Since , however , the Community is funding the exercise , it was felt appropriate for it to see a direct return on its investment . 
Thus , Amendment No 6 , while maintaining the freedom of Member States to transmit the data to international organisations , requires that it also be sent annually to the Commission . 
This change is taken in conjunction with Amendments Nos 1 , 4 and 7 . 
Amendment No 1 clarifies the point that , although the data are to be scientifically based , they are being collected for wider decision - making purposes . 
Amendment No 4 makes it clear that the object of the exercise is the evaluation of fisheries resources generally . 
Amendment No 7 calls on the Commission to report annually on the use it has made of the data collected under the regulation . 
It is also designed to give greater momentum to the process with earlier and more frequent reporting back by the Commission on the progress of the data collection programme as a whole . 
The other area of concern related to the range of data to be collected under the regulation . 
First , in respect to economic data , Amendment No 2 makes two changes . 
One attempts to ensure that the data sought are no more detailed than necessary to serve the objective being pursued . 
The other replaces a reference to income from sales and other revenue , subsidies , interest received , etc . , with a reference simply to volume of sales . 
It is considered that without these changes undesirably high costs in the collection of data could be incurred in Member States and that there could also be serious problems of confidentiality . 
In conjunction with these changes , Amendment No 5 deletes a reference to accounting headings accordingly . 
Secondly , in respect to the environmental data , the original proposal speaks only of biological and economic information . 
The Commission has , however , made it clear that it intends itself to engage in studies and pilot projects of a wider environmental kind . 
It has also made it clear that it may wish to extend the range of data being collected by Member States at a later stage . 
Amendment No 3 brings into the ambit of the current regulation data of the kind needed to monitor changes in aquatic ecosystems . 
This will certainly facilitate the introduction of a new regulation concerning environmental data and may even render this unnecessary . 
It should be stressed that the Amendment does not in any way require the Commission to include the collection of such data either under the minimum or the extended programmes it establishes . 
It merely permits the Commission to do so should it so wish . 
As already stated the proposal for the Council decision falls into two parts . 
The first is concerned with financing the Member States in implementing the Community programmes . 
The second is to allow the Commission itself to finance pilot studies and projects . 
There are some minor amendments : Amendment No 2 aims to ensure that the financial contribution to Member States can cover not only the costs of collection of data but also those of its management , compilation , aggregation , etc . Amendments Nos 3 and 6 aim to smooth the timescale given that Member States will have to wait until the implementing regulation is in place to know what the programmes actually involve ; and also to bring the timescale into line with the dates and the regulation . 
Amendments Nos 4 and 5 aim to ensure that financial information is forwarded continuously to the budgetary authority . 
More significantly , under Amendment No 1 , the Fisheries Committee accepts the recommendation of the Budgets Committee that the funding should be placed under heading 1 ( b ) rather than heading 3 of the Financial Perspective . 
Although in its preliminary draft budget the Commission entered the appropriations under heading 3 ' Internal Policies '  , Parliament created a new budget line B1 - 500 to finance the measures under discussion . 
This provides a safeguard to ensure that the necessary resources will continue to be available . 
 ) Mr President , I believe we totally agree with Mrs Attwooll ' s statement at the beginning of her excellent report that these two Commission proposals , intended to shed more light on the scientific and socio - economic situation of the fisheries sector , come at a critical time . 
The proposed exhaustive collection of data and the appropriate management of this data will be very valuable in helping to tackle the revision of the common fisheries policy in a more rigorous manner . 
This will only be true , of course , if the data can actually be obtained because , as rightly pointed out by our rapporteur , the Commission ' s proposal does not establish any element of compulsion on the Member States . 
The sending of data is completely voluntary and failure to do so will only mean that certain financial assistance , which is not very significant anyway , will not be received . 
In view of our experience of the submission of data in the fisheries sector , as evidenced by the reports on compliance with the MAGPs , I believe that instead of obtaining a full picture of the situation in the sector , we will end up with total confusion . For example , some Member States will provide scientific data but not employment data while others will provide data on employment but none on the situation of resources , according to whether they can or want to obtain and send this data . 
I am very much afraid that some will prefer to receive no financing rather than reveal their poor management . This has already been seen in cases where the sending of this data was compulsory , as with the MAGPs . 
In view of this problem , which seems to me to be the most serious , the Fisheries Committee report improves the proposal in certain important points , particularly with the rapporteur ' s suggestion of more reasonable submission deadlines and the request for monitoring by the Commission . 
My Group has included two reasonable requests . 
The first is that data originating from studies and samples should be used as a source of data whose collection could otherwise be interminable . The second is that the requirement for data referring strictly to the taxation of enterprises should be removed from the Commission ' s proposal , bearing in mind that this tax data does not come within the Community competence . 
As a result , this report is very satisfactory and , on behalf of my Group , I therefore ask for its approval . 
I wish at the outset to congratulate Mrs Attwooll on the preparation and presentation of her report . 
I welcome the establishment of a Community framework for the collection and management of fisheries data which I believe is absolutely essential if we are to properly assess the level of stocks of the various species of fish . 
It is important , of course , that the data is both of a biological and economic nature and the information to be provided from the various Member States must be standardised across the Community and , as stated by the rapporteur in her report , must be in compliance with international provisions . 
I welcome the availability of funding for national programmes , even taking into consideration provisions concerning the minimum programmes to be met . 
I agree with the proposals that information provided to international organisations should also be made available to the Commission . 
Otherwise the purpose of collecting and collating data would be defeated and if the information is not available then the precautionary approach would continue . 
Sound , factual information is in the best interests of the industry . 
I believe that the streamlined information to be made available will be of major benefit and importance to the decision makers and to their advisers and will go some way to ensure a more sustainable fishery that will continue to provide jobs in parts of the Union where there is no alternative source of employment . 
I am pleased to confirm that in my country they are working to ensure that the detailed practicalities , the logistics and utilisation of information are developed in the best interests of the resource of the industry and decision makers and our Group has no difficulty in supporting these reports . 
Mr President , behind the report , which is an honest one , by Mrs Attwooll , which we shall vote for , we see the European fisheries policy . It is not easy to manage because clearly in an open sea , which is immense and without borders , it is not easy to manage fish on the move . 
We are trying to manage a policy of catches and in so doing we are creating injustice . 
It is indeed a good idea to wish to prevent the depletion of fragile resources , but what is the point if Europe restricts its catches and world catches increase ? 
What is the point of banning European drift nets in the île d ' Yeu or elsewhere , if Japan , Korea and Tunisia use them and land fish here which we are not allowed to catch ? 
What is the point of destroying the French fishing fleet , at Sète or elsewhere , for example , if every year France has to spend two billion euros on importing fish caught and landed , while our fishermen are not allowed to catch it . 
What is more , the movement of fish is like CO2 or like capital , it is not European , but world - wide . 
Brussels , which wanted to do away with nations on the pretext that they were unsuited to the task , now in turn finds itself unsuited to managing a resource which itself is an international asset . 
Together with Mrs Attwooll , I am in favour of collecting scientific data , and of fair and accurate checks , on condition that they do not vary according to the severity or the laxness of the administrations . 
I am in favour of enlightened management by marine scientists , like Professor Aubert , or others , that will make it possible to discover that the basic problems are not so much to do with industrial fishing - although it plays a serious and negative part - but more to do with plankton , the large underwater hot mass or cold mass rivers , which have a much greater effect than human influence . 
But to enlighten the decision makers , let us practise honest science , without the ulterior motive of having the European Union finance excuses to destroy our fishing boats . 
For if we must preserve the shoals of fish , we must also preserve the ports and the fishermen . 
Instead of always following behind the United States , in Seattle , in Kosovo , in Iraq , perhaps the Europe of Brussels could suggest , over and above the international fishing organisations that exist in the North Atlantic , in the Pacific , over and above the regulation of tuna , cod or other things , that Europe should take the initiative and organise an international conference on fishing , a kind of Montego Bay of the fisheries resources which would be held between Peruvians , Japanese , Canadians , Russians , Europeans , and we could manage the fisheries resources scientifically as an asset common to humanity . 
That would be good internationalism as opposed to the bad internationalism , as practised with the free exchange areas and other false friends of the OECD . 
Mr President , Commissioner , to be able to adopt a credible fisheries policy , the Commission needs comprehensive and reliable data on fish stocks and fisheries fleets at its disposal . 
The Commission relies on the Member States for the collation of this data . 
A Community framework for the collation of this data adds some structure and improves accessibility for the purpose of scientific evaluation . 
The question , however , is whether or not the Member States would be prepared , under this new regime , to make the necessary data available at the requested time . 
Effective sanctions and / or incentives , which aim to encourage Member States to adopt a more serious approach , are lacking from the Commission ' s proposal . 
Moreover , can we rely sufficiently on this information ? 
How reliable is fishing data , as long as there are still large amounts of fish being caught illegally , as British fisherman David Cox recently admitted in Fishing News ? 
And what should we make of the data on fleet capacity ? 
Further to the Court of Auditor ' s criticism , in January this Parliament adopted my amendment to the Cunha report with a large majority . 
The amendment requests independent verification of fleet capacity data . 
I would like to know from the Commission how it has processed this recommendation , which is also endorsed by the Advisory Committee . 
Finally , radical decisions are sometimes mainly based on opinions presented by biologists . 
We therefore have everything to gain from improving the accuracy of biological predictions , for example by certifying the drafting of these opinions . 
Furthermore , the Commission must provide sufficient financial means for the inspection of stock levels . 
It is also recommended that more use be made of the expertise and experience gathered by fishermen when biological opinions are drafted . 
The Northern Ireland fishing industry has received many hard blows from this Union . 
They have seen their own waters plundered by others while they have had to put up their own boats and desist from fishing . 
The recent decisions on the cod quota for the Irish Sea is yet another hard blow which could well prove to be a mortal blow to the Northern Ireland fishing industry . 
I see the Commissioner smiling but I speak with the authority of all the political parties in Northern Ireland , a diverse crowd but all agreed on this one issue . 
The European Union needs to recognise that when such drastic decisions are taken against conflicting scientific evidence submitted by the fishermen themselves , which have been totally rejected out of hand , for the conservation of their own fish stocks , then serious trouble can only result when these men are not heard . 
At a recent visit in Brussels these fishermen ' s representatives , duly accredited , travelled from Northern Ireland and they were threatened with expulsion from the meeting when they sought to argue a case that they had very well prepared . 
That is scandalous , their case ought to be heard . 
It should be put on record , and I want to put it on record today . 
I sat in the meeting where the scientists told us that haddock would soon be extinct in the Irish Sea and at that very time haddock had a special , spectacular increase of breeding in the Irish Sea so the scientists can be wrong . 
As I have said all the Northern Ireland parties are united on this issue and those responsible for this cod quota regulation should reconsider this decision which can only spell not conservation for the fish but ruination to Northern Ireland fisheries which will affect all the fisheries of this Union . 
