Mr President , Mrs Attwooll ' s reports are extremely important as indeed is the prospect of having as much data as possible on the fisheries sectors of the Member States . This is particularly true given that the Commission must soon prepare a report on the revision of the common fisheries policy in the year 2002 . 
However , the fact that the updating and sending of data are purely optional and that this involves a very wide range of data and sectors may distort the final objective of the Commission ' s proposal . 
This has happened , as previously mentioned , with the MAGPs . These have seriously prejudiced the countries which have strictly complied with them and provided the corresponding data to the Commission , compared with other countries which have failed to comply or simply not provided the data . 
It should be pointed out that not all the Member States have the same amount of data . 
Some have different sectors and , in view of the volume of data to be sent , could be prejudiced compared with those which have a smaller volume of data , if the same deadlines are set . 
These deadlines for submission must therefore be staggered accordingly . 
Much of this data is confidential , as has also been mentioned , which could affect the competitiveness of the sectors involved and their enterprises . 
We must therefore act very carefully in this area and guarantee the confidentiality of this data . 
Some of the data is also irrelevant such as that referring to the taxation of enterprises . 
Finally , Mr President , as I must be brief given the time constraints , I must congratulate our rapporteur , Mrs Attwooll , on the important work which she has carried out within our committee . 
I too want to congratulate Mrs Attwooll and say that I agree with most of what she said . 
I regard it as a weakness in the proposal that reporting is not mandatory in all Member States . 
I cannot understand the proposal to make a regulation out of which it is possible for some Member States to slip without any penalty and I cannot understand either that within a European Union where we are only 50 % self - sufficient in fish for our domestic needs that there is any highly sensitive information , that by making the reports that are necessary that the national interest or the regional interest of some states or fishing communities is going to be put at risk . 
In view of the coming review of the policy in 2002 it is important that we have all possible information , economic as well as biological . 
In the past somebody said to me I have been defending the decisions the Commission makes . 
It is not very easy in coastal areas anywhere in the Union to defend the European Union in the whole area of fisheries , but I have been defending them on the grounds that decisions are made on properly based scientific knowledge . 
I am informed when I take a closer look that the information is in fact quite higgledy - piggledy with bits coming from here and there and no clear , proper economic and biological picture emerging . 
If we do not have this picture then it will not be possible to make reasonable decisions in two years ' time about the future of the policy . 
It is not easy , indeed I could speak for everybody in my constituency that live in the coastal areas too and say that they are agreed on one thing , that the European Union is the source of all their problems and all their difficulties . 
Well , I do not agree with them but I think if we do not base our information and our decisions on good scientific information , and if there is not an equal obligation on everyone to give it , then we will have bad decisions . 
Mr President , Commissioner , no one could dispute the usefulness of implementing the qualitative and quantitative data on the fishing industry , particularly in view of the reform of the CFP in 2002 . 
We are also of the opinion that Community funds should be set aside to fund these activities . 
A common fisheries policy must coordinate as well as possible the requirements for conservation of species and resource management with economic and market requirements . 
To this end , more extensive , compatible , uniform data is required , and we expect this to provide us with more general information on the Union ' s fishing industry if properly collected and interpreted . 
However , we also expect there to be greater awareness and appreciation of the peculiarities , differences , varying situations and traditions of the fishing industries , and that they will not be disregarded , penalised or even eliminated due to the misinterpretation of the concept of harmonisation of fisheries policies , as has sometimes occurred in the past . 
A case in point is the Mediterranean , including my country ' s fishing industry . 
After years of the CFP for the Mediterranean restricting itself to trade regulations and company aid , Regulation 1626 at last introduced a responsible fisheries policy , with measures protecting vulnerable fishery resources in order to ensure sustainable exploitation . 
This is a worthy objective , the implementation of which , however , has sometimes revealed an ignorance of the biological characteristics of Mediterranean species of fish . 
A subsequent regulation , Regulation 1448 , adopted , not by chance , in 1999 , permitted certain exemptions , in particular for special cases . 
The time period will elapse on 31 May next , to be precise , when the Commission will present a proposal . 
We hope that the presentation of the proposal will take into account the fact that this fishing system is vitally important for the economy of huge Italian coastal areas and that the scientific data hitherto collected demonstrate that , from the point of view of biological implications , resources are , to some extent , sustainable . 
Thank you very much , Commissioner Fischler . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a . m . 
Combating certain fish diseases
The next item is the report A5 - 0036 / 2000 by Mr Hudghton , on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries , on the proposal for a Council directive amending Directive 93 / 53 / EEC introducing minimum Community measures for the control of certain fish diseases ( COM ( 1999 )  - C5 - 0168 / 1999 - 1999 / 0191 ( CNS ) ) . 
Infectious salmon anaemia is a contagious viral disease which was first recorded in Norway in 1984 , then in Canada in 1986 and first found in European Union territory in May 1998 in Scotland . 
Although the virus has been found in other species , the disease itself is so far confined to salmon . 
The virus is known not to survive above 25o Celsius and scientists have therefore agreed that no threat to human health exists ; it simply cannot survive in warm - blooded creatures . 
The Scottish salmon - farming industry is the biggest in the EU , spread throughout some of Europe ' s most peripheral communities . 
It sustains some 6 500 jobs and generates around EUR 800 million annually . 
It is obvious therefore that this issue is especially important to Scotland but it is vitally important to all parts of Europe that the disease be brought under control and , if possible , eradicated . 
The current directive prohibits the use of vaccination and requires that all fish in an affected farm be slaughtered whether affected by the disease or not . 
The intention in adopting the current regime was to eradicate ISA and to do so as quickly as possible . 
The reality is that the compulsory slaughter policy has failed even to contain , let alone eradicate ISA , and while failing to deliver its objectives , the present rule has had a devastating economic effect on the industry with no compensation being paid and no possibility of commercial insurance . 
The proposed changes are twofold : the first would permit the use of vaccination as a weapon in this battle . 
This is a necessary change and should be accompanied by a commitment at European level to instigate and fund research into developing an effective vaccine . 
The second proposed change would permit a phased withdrawal of fish from affected farms , working to a plan based on the severity of the problem in any particular farm . 
This approach has been used very effectively in Norway where new reports of ISA are down to a handful of cases a year having peaked at some 80 - 90 cases per year in the early 1990s . 
I therefore support the Commission ' s proposed changes and I am calling for their urgent adoption and implementation . 
I also highlight the issue of compensation and call for the amendment of Council Decision 90 / 424 / EEC by specifically including ISA in its appended list of diseases , thereby enabling compensation to be paid at 50 % Commission , 50 % Member State . 
I thank colleagues in the Fisheries Committee for their overwhelming vote in support of my report and I in particular thank my Scottish colleagues in the committee for their input to this whole process . 
I am opposing Amendments 7 to 13 which were decisively rejected by the Fisheries Committee . 
Most of their content is either unnecessary or already referred to in my text . 
In particular , I have drawn attention to the need to study the extent and effect of interaction between farmed and wild salmon , the need to investigate the source of ISA and the need to test more widely for the virus in wild stocks . 
These amendments by the Green component of the Greens / European Free Alliance Group are designed to provide justification for Amendment 13 . 
This amendment is completely unacceptable and inappropriate as it seeks not only to retain the requirement for immediate compulsory slaughter of all fish but also to prevent any fish , whether diseased or not , from an affected farm from being sold and I must emphasise that under current policy no diseased fish are sold . 
There is no proposal to change that and under the proposed new regime there is no question of diseased fish being sold . 
Amendments 7 to 13 simply fail to take account of the reality as evidenced by the starkly contrasting statistics from Scotland and from Norway . 
In Scotland we have endured a draconian regime which has failed to achieve its objective . 
In Norway , with their much longer experience , compulsory , 100 % culling was abandoned some years ago and a range of measures have led there to a dramatically improved situation . 
It is in all of our interests to ensure that in Scotland too we contain ISA and prevent its further spread . 
Last week saw the publication in Scotland of a report by a joint government and industry working group on ISA . 
This comprehensive document takes account of a wide range of possible risks and recommends action to combat them in areas such as site - to - site transmission , security measures to curtail escapes , treatment of waste and effluent , methods of detection and diagnosis , farrowing and rotation , disinfection of equipment and many , many more . 
Some can and will be implemented immediately by local authorities using existing powers , others will be incorporated into codes of practice . 
All will be beneficial , not just in relation to ISA but in achieving better standards in aquaculture generally where required . 
Your votes , colleagues , in favour of my report in full , as endorsed by the Fisheries Committee , will be a very important part of a wider ISA control package based on the reality of Scotland ' s situation and the lessons learned from the success of others . 
I congratulate Mr Hudghton and fully support his report and would urge the honourable Members of Parliament to do likewise . 
As he said , fish farming is a critically significant source of employment in remote parts of rural Scotland and at a time when the rural areas of Scotland are suffering their worst recession in over a hundred years , the aquaculture industry provides an essential boost to the rural economy on which many thousands of direct and indirect jobs depend . 
Now , as he said , in excess of 85 000 tons of Salmon is now produced in Scottish fish farms in an industry which generates more than EUR 800 million annually . 
Regrettably , although ISA was first detected in Scotland only two years ago , it has now spread to 29 farms directly and around 240 other farms are affected in some way or another . 
Wild salmon , trout and eels have been found to carry the virus which now seems to be endemic even in the wider marine environment . 
But I must say that despite the scare - mongering of the Greens , it has to be emphasised that ISA cannot under any circumstances be transmitted to humans , and I must repeat what Mr Hudghton said , that the virus cannot survive above 25o - which is human body temperature - it is a virus of a cold - water species . 
It can , nevertheless , in the affected fish , lead to severe weight loss and early death in its advanced stages and it therefore has had a serious economic impact on the whole Scottish aquaculture sector costing the industry around EUR 60 to 70 million in losses arising from the mandatory premature culling and other eradication measures . 
So this report , Mr President , provides an encouraging range of proposals for improving the way in which the authorities in the UK and elsewhere should respond to the disease . 
By recommending the introduction of a method of containment and gradual culling , similar to the system used successfully in Norway , the rapporteur seeks to introduce a more flexible approach to the disease which will provide confidence , not least to the insurance sector who have hitherto shied clear of providing any form of cover due to the insistence on a policy of compulsory slaughter . 
By recommending the research , development and ultimate use of vaccination to control and eradicate ISA , the rapporteur also provides comfort to the pharmaceutical industry who have hitherto had no incentive to invest in the development of a vaccine . 
So I thoroughly recommend and hope that the Parliament will support this excellent report . 
I would like to thank the rapporteur , Mr Hudghton , also for this report . 
Scottish salmon farming is the biggest in the European Union and accommodates 90 % of the British aquacultural industry . 
The industry is located in some of Europe ' s most peripheral communities providing an economic lifeline to those communities . 
In recent research it is estimated that the industry is worth EUR 800 million per annum and 6 500 jobs rely on its existence . 
I believe that this report gives a clear method for dealing with Infectious Salmon Anaemia which is both practical , realistic and also achievable . 
The example of Norway demonstrates the effectiveness of this approach . 
As for the amendments , I oppose the amendments tabled by Mr Hudghton ' s Green colleagues , that is numbers 7 to 13 , not because I do not care about the risks to human health but because , according to scientific evidence , the virus does not survive beyond 25o Celsius and according to medical evidence , human beings at that temperature are dead . 
There is a saying that the dead tell no tales and I am sure they do not eat fish but I do and I look forward to the implementation of this report . 
I too would like to compliment Mr Hudghton on his report and to endorse his additions to the original proposal in relation both to the matter of compensation and encouragement of vaccine development . 
I too agree that Amendments 7 to 13 are unfortunate , indeed Amendment 13 would not merely negate the intended effects of the proposal but actually would make the situation even more difficult than under current rules . 
This is not though to deny the importance of environmental considerations in relation to fish farming . 
Mr Hudghton has already referred to the final report of the UK joint government industry working group on ISA and the measures there are of relevance for fish farming wherever it happens , not just in farms affected by ISA . 
Secondly , looking forward to the motion for a resolution on the Katiforis report later this evening , paragraph 28 is of particular importance . 
This calls on the Commission and Member States to step up the adoption of measures to combat the possible negative effects of aquaculture on the marine environment . 
Thirdly , referring to the earlier discussion on the collection of fisheries data , I very much hope that the Commission will engage in projects and studies looking at aquaculture in the environmental context but I believe that is the way forward in relation to the environment , not the way that is suggested in Amendments 7 to 13 , and I hope honourable Members will reject them . 
