Mr President , I do not agree with this chorus of satisfaction expressed by my colleagues , who are delighted about the relaxing of a directive that respects the principle of precaution and which takes measures to protect consumers ' health . 
This infectious salmon disease is caused by an orthomixomicrovirus which breaks down the blood of salmon , causing death . 
It spreads very easily through mucus in saline water , etc . 
Under the 1993 directive , not only the diseased fish can be culled but also the farmed fish where individuals are affected , exactly like the case when one cow is sick in a herd and the whole herd is culled according to the principle of precaution . 
What we currently propose is to relax this directive , so that we do not cull all the fish , but only the fish that are found to be diseased . 
For the others , well , we would have time to see what would happen , according to local circumstances . 
I think it is a very serious matter that we act in this way . 
I would particularly draw my colleagues ' attention to this fact as we cannot make do with saying that a temperature of 27ยบ has every advantage for the human race and that , consequently , there is no risk to men . 
What about women ? 
Nobody has undertaken any studies on human tissue in that regard . 
There is also a risk to the environment , because we know that there is an incubation period in salmon and that , consequently , if they are eaten , they can be carriers of this virus and present a risk . 
There is another risk to the environment as well , because this disease is transmitted to wild fish , as we have seen . 
For this reason , together with my colleague , Patricia McKenna , we have tabled amendments against the proposals made by the Commission . 
Mr Pietrasanta explained why we support some aspects of the Commission ' s proposal , in particular support for development of a vaccine and compensation for farmers who are forced to slaughter their fish , but were not at all happy with the idea of changes to the slaughter policy . 
Now people have said here that Norway has done a better job of controlling the epidemic of ISA and that the proposed change will bring us more in line with the Norwegian approach , but it must be said that there is more than just one difference between the Norwegian policy and that of the Community . 
This is a Community policy which will effect Ireland as well - where I am from - should similar unfortunate events occur . 
There are other differences that exist in the policy for inspections of disease , fallowing periods , restriction on movement of contaminated fish and materials and others . Before we jump to copy the slaughter policy of the Norwegians , we should try these other things first to see if we can mitigate the disaster . 
And people have spoken in the past about BSE . 
For many years the Greens were calling for the BSE issue to be addressed . 
Had it been at that time , you could have actually saved an awful lot of farmers and the EU a huge amount of money . 
So it also has to do with environmental protection . The protection of the farmers themselves and the protection of public health . 
I would like to thank Mr Hudghton for his excellent report on ISA and for broadly supporting the measures proposed by the Commission and also for the contributions from each of the speakers this evening . 
The Commission proposal aims to ensure a more pragmatic approach towards controlling a disease that has the potential to cause important losses in salmon farms . 
However , this cannot be allowed to compromise our objective of reducing and possibility eliminating ISA . 
Nor can it be done , if the proposal involves a threat to public health . 
The environmental implications must also be taken very seriously . 
I am advised that ISA is considered non - pathogenic for humans and mammals . 
The disease exists since 1984 and there is no report of it affecting human health or mammals . 
The virus harms cold - blooded animals . 
It does not replicate at temperatures above 25ยบ centigrade and would , if present in fish for human consumption , be inactivated when ingested . 
In no way , however , can diseased fish be used for human consumption . 
As an extra precaution , I am validating this advice to our scientific committee . 
During the debate , a number of important issues linked to our disease - control strategy have been raised including compensation . 
I deeply regret the losses suffered by the Scottish salmon industry . 
You may know that with effect from 15 January 2000 , under the new financial instrument for fisheries guidance , Member States may encourage eradication of diseases in aquaculture . 
The Commission ' s services are drawing up implementing rules in order to ensure the practical application of this instrument . 
Council Decision 90 / 424 constitutes another instrument for Community financial support in case of disease outbreaks . 
I must emphasise , however , that there are serious constraints . 
Budgetary resources are very limited and priorities with other diseases have to be set . 
So further thought is necessary . 
I regret therefore that I am not at present in a position to accept amendments that refer to compensation through Decision 90 / 424 . 
This is in particular the case for Amendments Nos 3 and 5 . 
I agree , however , with the statement in Amendment No 2 saying that no compensation has been made payable to salmon farmers . 
I am not able to comment on the availability of commercial insurance . 
The Commission included in its proposal a possibility for vaccination of salmon . 
The intention of this proposal is to introduce a tool for combating the disease in emergency situations . 
I believe a vaccine should not be used for preventative purposes as suggested in Amendment No 4 . 
Experience in other areas has shown that preventative vaccination has the adverse affect of creating healthy virus carriers . 
Those could perpetuate an infection . 
I therefore am not able to accept Amendment No 4 . 
You also referred to the need for further scientific research on the nature of the disease . 
I agree that such research is needed and I understand this is at present being organised in the United Kingdom . 
I will follow very closely the results of this research and take it fully into account in future legislative proposals . 
It must be further examined whether and how scientific research in other parts of the Community must be organised . 
In this context I am happy to partly accept Amendment No 1 , taking into account , however , that scientific investigations are not done by the Commission but that the Commission relies on results of investigations carried out in the Member States . 
I also can partly accept the part of Amendment No 6 saying that Directive 93 / 53 should be amended as a result of scientific and technical evidence . 
As I pointed out earlier , the available scientific evidence is that ISA is not a threat to health . 
I can therefore agree to Amendment No 10 with the proviso that the words , and I quote ,  " of the highest possible standard " are replaced by " are safe "  . 
With regard to the environmental impact , it is a well - known phenomenon that while stocks have fallen during the last decades several reasons have been advanced to explain these reductions : pollution , over - fishing , changes in climate , etc . It cannot at present be excluded that ISA has an impact on wild stock . 
Fish escapes from aquaculture premises have been reported in the past and the virus has been found in wild stocks . 
In this context , a number of scientific questions that can only be resolved through further research remain open . 
It is for that reason that a careful approach towards the control of ISA is needed . 
Diseased fish should not remain in the farms and I am prepared to look into the matter so as to avoid unnecessary shedding of a virus into the environment . 
For that purpose , I propose to amend our initial proposal to provide that rural programmes established by the competent authority must be approved by the Commission . 
This is to avoid excessive withdrawal periods . 
I also propose to provide that the withdrawal of fish displaying clinical signs of disease should be immediate . 
The procedures for setting additional control measures that already exist in Community legislation will be used to establish withdrawal schemes based on the state of health of the fish in order to minimise a possible environmental impact . 
Bearing this in mind , I can agree to accept Amendment Nos 7 and 8 with a minor change to the latter . 
I am also very sympathetic towards Amendment No 9 , but I believe that it can be better formulated so as to join , at the same time , environmental concerns and disease control and eradication strategies . 
I do not feel in a position to accept Amendments Nos 12 and 13 . 
It is my feeling that these amendments aim to achieve a zero risk . 
I believe this objective is very difficult to achieve without closing down the fish farming sector concerned . 
I look forward to Parliament ' s own views on these amendments and will take careful note if you believe that such an approach is the best way forward . 
I can partly accept Amendment No 11 . 
Finally , I would like to emphasise that we continue to strive to maintain a high level of health protection in accordance with our obligations under the Treaty . 
I believe that measures that are proportionate to that objective is the way forward . 
We remain committed to eradicating the disease , an objective that will be beneficial for both the environment and the salmon - farming sector . 
I hope that in accepting our proposal the European Parliament acknowledges our commitment and I would be very grateful for that . 
Thank you very much , Commissioner Byrne . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a . m . 
Protection of juvenile marine organisms
The next item is the report A5 - 0035 / 2000 by Mr Gallagher , on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries , on the proposal for a Council regulation amending for the fourth time Regulation ( EC ) No 1626 / 94 laying down certain technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources in the Mediterranean and for the fourth time Regulation ( EC ) No 850 / 98 for the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms ( COM ( 1999 ) 552 - C5 - 0040 / 2000 - 1999 / 0222 ( CNS ) ) . 
The proposal before us as outlined in the introduction is a very important one . 
By now , my colleagues in the Fisheries Committee and indeed in the Parliament will be well aware of our commitment to technical conservation measures which are based on sound technical advice . 
The body charged with giving this advice based on sound scientific data is the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tuna . 
This intergovernmental fishery organisation of which the European Union is a member is responsible for the conservation of tuna and tuna - like species in the Atlantic and the adjacent seas including the Mediterranean . 
This body was established back in March 1969 and is formally obliged to meet biannually , however the norm is that it meets annually and takes its decisions on the basis of scientific advice . The body then makes recommendations with a view to maintaining stocks . 
This body has four standing committees comprised of national experts dealing with research and statistics , finances and administration , compliance and conservation and management measures . 
They have also four panels dealing with tropical tuna , with temperate tuna , the north and temperate tuna south and other species . 
These panels are powered to initiate regulatory measures on species covered by the convention . 
Proposals made by the panels are then presented to the Commission and the Commission in turn makes recommendations to the contracting parties . 
These conditions are binding , however contracting parties may lodge objections within a six - month period . 
The European Union is a contracting party and is obliged to embody such recommendations in Community law . 
At a ICCAT meeting in November 1998 in Santiago de Compostela , changes were recommended to the rules relating to the landing of the minimum size of bluefin tuna . 
ICCAT also made recommendations in 1974 , 1994 and 1996 . 
As of now , it is illegal to land or sell bluefin of zero age and that of course is - in weight terms - less than 1 . 8 kilos . 
At its recent meeting in November 1998 , the ICCAT standing committee on research and statistics was asked to perform a new assessment of the western Atlantic and eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna populations . 
The information provided would then assist the organisation in considering developing and improving stock rebuilding plans . 
It was agreed that the SCRS should present a study at the 1998 meeting . It was intended that this meeting be presented with various possible recovery options with a view to maximising sustainable yields by taking into account alternatives or possible levels of recruitment and mixing of stocks . 
It was intended that the study should indicate monthly closures to purse seine , in order that the closures would be effective for the conservation of bluefin stock . 
Following all of the research , the meeting agreed to a selective closure rather than a general prohibition of fishing for tuna in the Mediterranean with purse seine during the period 1 August to 31 August . 
It is important to protect the tuna fishery for future generations . 
Bluefin tuna is the world ' s most expensive fish fetching up to EUR 90 000 per ton at the auctions in Tokyo and , of course , the indication of the importance of the Mediterranean tuna is that it accounts for 70 percent of global landings in the region of 30 000 tons . 
80 percent of it was landed by purse seine . 
The Mediterranean is an important spawning area for bluefin tuna so therefore it is important that the necessary measures be taken to enhance the protection of juveniles . 
The minimum size must be respected and technical measures must be implemented if we are to eliminate the zero age . 
The measures agreed in November 1998 are binding since 21 June , I repeat 21 June 1999 , months before the communication was forwarded to the Parliament ' s Fisheries Committee and 9 months almost to the date . 
Now I believe , Commissioner , this is not good enough and that in the future we must learn and that reports must be submitted to the Parliament ' s Fisheries Committee before decisions are taken , otherwise then we are nothing further than a rubber stamp and I know that is not the intention of the Commission or the Commissioner but let us learn from mistakes of the past . 
