Mr President , this proposal aims to incorporate into Community law an ICCAT recommendation from 1998 which should have been binding from June 1999 , but which only reached this House at the end of last year . 
The Commission ' s legislative delay on certain issues should not surprise us , but for the fact that this is a recommendation from one of the most important international fisheries organisations on the protection of such a threatened resource as tuna . 
The Mediterranean , particularly in some zones , is an extremely important spawning area for the bluefin tuna which is of enormous commercial value . 
This is why ICCAT recommended this closed zone in the Adriatic and toughened the conditions for catching zero - age fish . 
As rightly said by the rapporteur , both measures are totally and fully justified which is why we have no alternative but to ask for their approval . 
However , I also agree with Mr Gallagher who felt bound to indicate his frustration at the tardiness of the Commission in getting into gear and transforming the recommendations into Community law . 
We are , for example , still waiting for the proposal for a regulation on banning the import of bluefin tuna from Honduras and Belize . The recommendation for this dates from 1996 . 
Apparently , according to my information , the Fisheries Directorate - General sent a note last January to the Trade Directorate - General which is still on the preparatory work . 
Four years to apply this ban on imports from countries known to favour flags of convenience is absolutely unacceptable . 
We have listened to the Commission ' s explanations about the long internal process involved in transposing legislation . This has simply left us with an image of an exasperating bureaucracy . 
Yet I have my doubts about the only proposal currently on the table to improve this process which would involve doing away with the Council and Parliament procedure . 
It is clear that we must find a solution to this problem , either at the time of the Commission report on regional fisheries organisations or , if possible , before then . 
I do not suppose that anybody in this House would object to the principle of protecting juveniles of marine organisms . 
Indeed , it is often stated that one of the general objectives of the common fisheries policy shall be to protect and conserve living marine aquatic resources . 
All laudable stuff . 
There can also be no doubt that bluefin tuna is of enormous environmental and financial significance . 
As a king sport fisherman myself , I would love to see the days of the 1930s come back when anglers from the port of Scarborough in Yorkshire caught bluefin tuna weighing up to 830 pounds . 
I do not know what the metric equivalent is . 
So I support the findings of ICCAT and I support the principle of intergovernmental cooperation on environmental issues . 
My concern though with this debate is that we are fiddling whilst Rome burns . 
The common fisheries policy is not working . 
For all of the high - minded talk about conservation , the reality is that the quota system is directly leading to an environmental disaster . 
In mixed fisheries , you cannot discriminate . 
The sheer volume of fish that are thrown back dead also means that any improvement in fisheries data is meaningless . 
From a UK perspective there is also a deep - seated political objection to the CFP . 
Many people now feel if this is federalism you can keep it . 
Let me illustrate this with a topical example . 
In February , Commission Regulation 394 / 2000 designed to protect Irish Sea cod stocks was issued . 
It means that in Fleetwood , 30 inshore boats are tied up until the end of April . 
The scientists and the fishermen both agree that something has to be done . 
However , more than a dozen large Belgian beam trawlers have been granted a derogation from this regulation so the vessels that caused the very problem in the first place are carrying on fishing whilst it is a criminal offence for the UK fleet to do so . 
The CFP does not assist in conservation and is angering the British public to the point where we demand to re - establish control over our own territorial waters . 
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , Mr Gallagher ' s report on the fourth amendment of the Regulation on technical measures was not amended in our committee . 
It was actually approved unanimously for which I congratulate the rapporteur . This also shows that our committee is in total agreement when it comes to supporting measures which aim to protect species , such as tuna in this case . 
These decisions must be defended by the Commission in ICCAT . This is why our committee asked to be consulted in advance and to be represented at the meetings as an observer in order to ensure greater and better control and to reinforce the European Parliament ' s role . 
Mr Fischler , I am delighted that the Commission responded favourably to our request in the last and constructive debate which we had on this issue and has asked to attend our next meeting this month to inform us about the future preparatory ICCAT meeting . 
Our rapporteur ' s criticisms on this point have also therefore been heeded . 
I must highlight the part of the report which states that , in 1975 , with regard to the size of bluefin tuna , a minimum limit of 6 . 4 kg with a 15 % tolerance in the number of fish was recommended for the entire Atlantic . 
However , according to the SCRS study , the regulation establishing the 6 . 4 kg minimum has been poorly enforced in the East Atlantic and Mediterranean fisheries . 
The WWF reports that , according to Italian , French and Spanish customs authorities , illegal bluefin fishing and landings of small fish are on the increase . 
I cannot and do not want to go any further as we are pushed for time . 
However , I must again congratulate our rapporteur , Mr Gallagher . 
Thank you very much , Commissioner Fischler . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a . m . 
Fishing and the environment ( Bergen 13 - 14 March 1997 ) : 2nd report
The next item is the report ( A5 - 0016 / 2000 ) by Mr Varela Suanzes - Carpegna , on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries , on the second report from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on the implementation of the " statement of conclusions from the intermediate ministerial meeting on the integration of fisheries and environmental issues , 13 - 14 March in Bergen "  ( COM ( 1999 ) 270 - C5 - 0156 / 1999 - 1999 / 2150 ( COS ) ) . 
Mr President , Mr Fischler , my report concerns the vital integration of environmental and fisheries issues , as discussed at the ministerial meeting in Bergen . 
This integration has always been a priority for me as we would be doing the fisheries and fishermen of the future a disservice if we did not emphasise the need for conservation of resources and responsible fisheries in general . 
To fail in this respect would mean food for today but hunger for tomorrow , not just for our fishermen and the people of Europe but , more seriously , for humanity as a whole . 
The common fisheries policy is theoretically very demanding and very strict in this respect , perhaps more so than most people , both Europeans and non - Europeans , would believe . 
I have therefore asked the European Commission to produce a publication which lists all the measures of the common fisheries policy aimed at conserving and protecting resources . This will serve to publicise our protectionist actions . 
We have also asked Parliament ' s own DG IV to prepare a systematic study of these measures for the Committee on Fisheries . 
The revision of the common fisheries policy in 2002 is the biggest time - limited challenge facing us . We must completely overhaul , modernise or , if you prefer , update this policy in its entirety . 
I would stress that the whole of the CFP must be revised , particularly the part on the protection of fish stocks . 
This is the basis of my request to the European Commission and the services of this House . 
I do not believe that the state of stocks and the current scandalous system of discards are a good example of the policy ' s effectiveness which must therefore , in my opinion , be significantly improved . 
I do not want to and cannot go into too much detail , Mr President , given the time constraints and also the interpreters ' fees . 
However , I will just remind you that the meeting in Bergen showed very significantly that a proper policy on the sea must be created . 
The President - in - Office informed our committee that the current Portuguese presidency intended the CFP to be regarded as a policy for ensuring the sustainability of our resources . This must be our objective in Europe and throughout the world . 
In this respect , important Community initiatives arose from Bergen which have always been supported by our committee . These are aimed at re - establishing the breeding biomass , reducing and adapting fishing effort to resources , protecting juveniles , species and their habitats and adopting technical measures aimed at selective and responsible fisheries . 
These initiatives , together with effective systems of control , are the key aspects for the future of fisheries . 
However , we do not have to resort to extreme solutions , as Mr Katiforis initially suggested in his draft report . 
I am referring to this now because I will not have time to speak later on . 
I must point out in this respect that it was the numerous amendments tabled and approved in our committee and the flexibility shown by Mr Katiforis which enabled his report to be approved by our committee . 
Coincidence or fate has worked to bring together in this part - session both my report and Mr Katiforis ' s report on fisheries and the environment . The oral question from our committee on the extremely serious consequences for fisheries of the accident involving the tanker Erika will also be considered tomorrow . 
Maritime transport , industrial and urban pollution and waste also have negative effects on fisheries whose problems do not just come from overfishing . 
Thank you very much , Commissioner Fischler . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a . m . 
Fisheries management and nature conservation in the marine environment
The next item is the report A5 - 0017 / 2000 by Mr Katiforis , on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries , on the communication from the Commission to the Council and European Parliament : Fisheries management and nature conservation in the marine environment ( COM ( 1999 ) 363 - C5 - 0176 / 1999 - 1999 / 2155 ( COS ) ) . 
The problems for resource management and environmental protection in the fishery sector have been considered by this House many times in the past . 
This particular communication from the Commission forms part of the Commission ' s overall strategy of improving the integration of environmental considerations into other Community policies . 
The overall strategy of the Commission is to direct fisheries activities towards both economically and environmentally sustainable levels through management of the scarce resource in such a manner as to prevent its exhaustion through over - exploitation and / or environmental degradation . 
The alternative to successful management is the economic decline of the fisheries industry as stocks dwindle and demand for fish products is increasingly met by imports . 
I understand I have been described in a Spanish newspaper as an enemy of the fishing industry because I have said such things . 
Of course , I am only an enemy of the fishing industry as much as anybody who recommends to some people not to saw off the branch on which they are sitting . 
This is an unwise policy . 
In particular , the communication calls for control of fisheries pressure to benefit commercial stocks and marine aqua systems , improved measures for nature conservation in the marine environment , in the graded management of coastal areas , improved training , information transparency and a greater contribution from scientific research to fisheries management . 
All of the above priorities will be pursued equally at both the Community level and in the various international fora in which the Community participates . 
They should also be pursued in the context of the bilateral and multilateral agreements which the Community negotiates . 
Whilst the communication reveals the Commission ' s worthy intentions in this field , it is also revealing as to what activity is lacking and where management and control improvements can be made . 
One can quote from the communication . 
Over - exploitation is so severe in Community fisheries that the scientific authorities have recommended rapid reductions of the exploitation levels of up to 40 percent . 
That appeared in the communication published last July . 
Since then , the Fisheries Council meeting of 16 December decided on drastic reductions in the total allowable catches for certain species such as cod and anchovy which were in the region of 25 percent for cod and 43 percent for anchovy for the year 2000 . 
Furthermore , the Commission adopted an emergency regulation for a recovery plan for Irish Sea cod , effectively calling a halt to cod fishing in the Irish Sea between 14 February and 13 April due to the crisis in the species . 
These are examples of the fishery sector facing severe problems due to over - exploitation . 
What can be done to alleviate the damage done to fishing communities ? 
The first consideration must be to recognise that Community legislation must be reinforced and control mechanism procedures enhanced . 
Secondly , the principles of such Community legislation should also be extended to international agreements to which the Community is a party . 
Thirdly , the European Union should undertake to enhance its monitoring and prevention of extensive pollution prevalent in Community waters and which is harmful to marine life including fishery resources . 
More controls would be placed to prevent oil spillages such as that of the Erika in the Bay of Biscay and also deliberate dumping of waste oils . 
Recognition should also be given to the pressures which the delicate marine aqua system faces from urbanisation of coastal areas . 
Such pressures are greatest in Europe . 
In this context one can also mention the problems of discards of unwanted catches , fishing gear which destroys the seabed and the destruction of natural habitats by over intensive aquacultures . 
A quota management system such as that existing in New Zealand since 1986 is one possible alternative . 
Under this system , and given the total allowable catch for a species , a market is created for individual quotas for fishing rights within a certain area which the rightholders can trade amongst themselves , fish themselves or lease the rights to other fishermen for a certain time . 
The property right that has been created in such a system is the right to fish - not the fish themselves . 
Such a market organisation can reap better long - term prospects for the fishing industry . 
At present dear colleagues , we can never be fully informed about the vast ecosystem that is the sea , nor about the multitude of factors which affect the stock of resources in this aqua system . 
However , we should never blind ourselves to scientific research , we should never cease to gather information , we should never cease to explore improvements in existing systems and , if necessary , we should at least consider policy changes . 
The fishery sectors in Europe face serious problems and I am a great supporter of the fishery sector . 
I therefore call upon the Commission and the Council to find the information , the political will to provide genuine long - term solutions for fishing communities and not depend upon short - termism . 
I recommend the report to the House . 
The Environment Committee is generally pleased with the Commission ' s communication and we are also pleased that the Fisheries Committee adopted all our amendments . 
It is now widely accepted that fishing has effects on marine environment which are much more wide - ranging and pervasive than simple capture of target species with a little bit of by - catch . 
We welcome the intention of the Commission to integrate environmental protection into other policies of the EU including the common fisheries policy . 
After all , the treaties have stipulated since 1992 that the precautionary principle and environmental protection should be integrated into Community policies . 
But as has been pointed out , the adoption of a rigorous definition of the precautionary principle is crucial . This is because it is all very easy to pay lip service to the idea and then to continue with business as usual . 
The UN Fish Stocks Agreement of 1995 would serve as a very good model in this regard . 
One aspect that was missing from the communication though is the aspect of surveillance and control . 
All the good policies and regulations in the world will not lead to conservation without an effective system to ensure that the rules are respected . 
Control is a Member State competence and the Council has recently adopted a list of serious infringements aimed at coordinating to some extent the severity with which similar violations are viewed in different countries . 
This is a good step forward , but as the Commission and the Fisheries Committee continually point out , much improvement is needed in the control programmes of all Member States . 
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report . 
