Mr President , fishing is an extremely important economic activity which involves major investment . Most of its jobs are provided under fairly tough conditions throughout entire Community regions . 
However , some people ' s view of the fisheries sector can be extremely simplistic , ranging from mere folklore to the insult of regarding fishermen as insensitive pirates and predators . 
I regret to say that this report , due to its link with the environment , seems to have provided an occasion for those with this type of view to introduce their own particular misconceptions . 
If Mr Katiforis ' s report had been approved in its initial wording , none of the members of the Committee on Fisheries could have gone into any fishing region again without fear of being lynched . 
The relationship between fisheries and marine ecosystems is obvious . 
Yet it is very wide - ranging and involves many other factors including pollution and maritime transport . 
To blame fishermen alone for environmental damage is both unfair and wrong . 
Our committee avoided embarrassing itself by making a series of amendments of which I tabled 14 , many of which were accepted by the rapporteur for which I thank him sincerely . 
Just when we thought the discussions had ended , a number of diverse amendments have been tabled in plenary which I ask you to vote against unreservedly . 
According to these , for example , the meagre fisheries budget should have to finance artistic heritage or encourage tourism at sea . 
Others , like Amendment No 4 , which request financing for biological closures , also demonstrate a lack of understanding of fisheries regulations by requesting measures which are already in force , although admittedly there is room for improvement in these . 
I therefore ask you to reject the four amendments tabled so that we can close this chapter on fisheries and the environment with the thought which came up in the committee ' s debate . These two areas are closely related and they suffer the effects of the same environmental attacks . 
As I have said many times before , the fisheries sector is more a victim than the cause of damage to the marine ecosystem and tomorrow we will be able to confirm this in the debate on the Erika . 
Mr President , Mr Katiforis ' s report has the virtue of having brought life , debate and controversy to a communication in which the European Commission limits itself to listing a series of good intentions , although recognising its inability to put these into practice . 
Mr Katiforis has certainly not lacked the courage to set out the measures which , in his opinion , could help to improve and conserve the natural resources of the sea . 
Yet I must say that I disagree with many of his proposals because I am with those who believe that it is not just resources which are important in the fisheries sector but also the human beings who have been carrying out this activity for centuries . 
I agree with the rapporteur that the European fisheries and environmental policies should be better coordinated . 
However , what we are basically missing is the political courage and determination of the Commission and the Member States to take decisions and apply the current regulations . 
Maritime transport , employment and energy should be integrated together with fisheries and the environment . 
As for the Structural Funds , certain examples could be mentioned but I will leave this for another day . 
The European Parliament is aware of the limited resources and the need for responsible fisheries . 
The Commission and Member States should be meticulous in respecting the TACs and the quotas fixed in accordance with objective scientific criteria . The same yardstick should be used for everyone . 
As Mr Katiforis says , discards are a waste of resources which we cannot accept . 
Twenty million tonnes of unwanted catches are being thrown back . 
The fleet must therefore use increasingly selective fishing gear . 
This House has already indicated its opposition to driftnets and yet it is evident that certain countries are not only not respecting the undertaking to eliminate these nets but are increasing the number of vessels using these or simply not providing data given the passiveness of the national and Community authorities . 
We socialists consider that to defend the common fisheries policy is to defend a regulated and controlled fisheries sector . 
It is therefore essential that the Commission launches an information campaign on the CFP with this message . 
Without a common fisheries policy there can only be lack of control , damage to the environment and an unsustainable economic activity . 
Mr President , I very much appreciate this report by Mr Katiforis on fisheries management and nature conservation in the marine environment . 
Let us not forget that fish are at the very basis of our food chain and that the first ' environmental ' disaster , Minamata disease , occurred in 1958 in Japan owing to the fact that fish were polluted by mercury . 
We should therefore very carefully monitor pollution from industrial activity , but also from domestic activity . 
I do not believe that ejecting emissions at sea , and particularly in a closed environment like the Mediterranean , when we want to clean up purification plants , is a good way to clean up water . 
We should pay particular attention to telluric pollution , to development , to the urbanisation of coastal areas , etc . But we should also think about restoring the environment and , for example , solving the problems associated with caulerpa taxifolia , and the areas of posidonia that are disappearing and which must therefore be protected . 
They say that if you want something done , it is best to do it yourself and so the users of the sea , the fishermen , must be very attentive . 
It will certainly be necessary to reduce the amount of fish caught and the elimination of the surplus capacity between 30 and 40 % , as proposed by the Commission , has been very greatly watered down by the Council , to between 5 and 10 % . 
It will also be necessary to undertake selective fishing and , together with my colleague , Nol Mamre , who is also a former Member of the European Parliament , we would request a moratorium on the use of deep - sea trawlers in Community waters in the Bay of Biscay , to the south of the 47th parallel north , because we have had enough of seeing dolphins being washed up and dying on our beaches , particularly at the moment . 
So we must practise selective fishing . 
Aquaculture should also be monitored . 
Read Mr Katiforis ' s report again , in which he says that in Scotland , for example , 17 000 salmon are infected by the disease that I just mentioned , and impact upon the environment . 
Let us therefore take great care with work in a closed environment . 
The Council of Europe is coming before the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy on 22 March to speak about the research work that must be undertaken , particularly in the marine environment and , more precisely , the scientific and economic challenges of exploiting the oceans . 
Ladies and gentlemen , I would ask you to come and take part in this discussion . 
Mr President , the Katiforis report has been amended according to the proposals , notably , of the Europe for a Union of Nations Group , which were adopted in the Committee on Fisheries and , in my opinion , this version is an improvement on the original . 
I would like to touch briefly on these amendments . 
With regard to the installation of satellite fishing vessel monitoring systems , we feel that it is important for them to be installed on as many vessels as possible , although small vessels should not be compelled to carry them , of course , as investment and running costs would be disproportionately high compared to the value of the catches they make , and also in view of the fact that , in any case , satellite fishing vessel monitoring systems are not suitable or efficient for coastal fishing vessels . 
We welcome the report ' s rejection of the idea originally put forward by the rapporteur of creating a taxation system , as this would be impossible to implement and enforce for all the Member States . 
Moreover , with regard to the protection of coastal areas , which are the main breeding and spawning grounds for many species of fish , we hope for tighter controls , which , in our opinion , should be accompanied by penal sanctions for throwing unwanted catches back into the sea . 
In effect , this practice is responsible for a high death rate and is therefore incompatible with good fisheries management . 
More specifically , with regard to fisheries management in the Mediterranean , we are all aware that fishing in the Mediterranean is not governed by provisions on TACs . 
And just as well , in my view . 
As you may be aware , in contrast with the cold Northern seas , the Mediterranean is a small , warm sea where there are very few , if any , schools of only one species of fish . 
In our opinion , the possibility put forward in the explanatory statement of this report of setting TACs in the Mediterranean is therefore inappropriate . 
Lastly , we would vote for the amendments tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left . 
We do believe that it is extremely important to give financial support to conventional fishing and craft trades and to boost the income of fishermen during periods when moratoria on fishing are in force : in short , we must make it possible to carry on a major , responsible economic activity while still ensuring proper respect for the environment . 
Mr President , first of all , I am pleased that the Katiforis report takes into consideration the multitude of factors responsible for the deterioration of the marine environment : pollution , unsupervised fishing , drilling platforms and pressure from the increasing use of coastal areas for urban development are potential sources of widescale damage to the environment in both coastal areas and offshore , and fishing is also a victim of this situation . 
There is therefore a need for an in - depth analysis of the relationship between fishing and the environment . 
The use of selective fishing gear which reduces incidental unwanted catches and limits the throwing of unwanted fish back into the sea is certainly essential , as is a reduction of the pressure from the fishing industry offshore , as well as in coastal waters . 
A reduction in the fishing capacity and in pressure from the fishing industry on fish stocks is not necessarily compatible with maintaining an outdated fleet and would limit modernisation . 
In addition to providing more appropriate conditions of safety and hygiene , the use of more modern vessels could also contribute to reducing certain major factors . 
Moreover , it is important to uphold the concept that it is not possible to make a surface categorisation of entire fishing sections as more environmentally friendly : in reality , in some cases , small - scale fishing has less of an impact on the environment and natural resources . 
I am also pleased that the report takes into consideration the possibility of starting a campaign for informing fishermen and consumers of the risks of exploiting fishing resources , and I also welcome the Commission ' s request to propose the institution of a European award to be given to different categories of the industry and to all those who provide services and advice regarding responsible behaviour , in order to further the sustainable management of fish stocks and the conservation of marine life . 
