Mr President , as a member of the Verts / ALE Group , but also as a Member of this Parliament for Galicia , I propose to use this intervention to enlarge upon two issues . I shall , of course , be brief . 
Firstly , fishery production and the conservation of marine life and resources are two sides of the same coin . 
Shipowners and fishermen from the countries most active in fishing are more concerned than anyone about respecting their means of living , for without it , the future of this sector cannot be guaranteed . 
Secondly , it is true that a policy of preserving the marine environment must be practised both in Community seas and in international waters or those belonging to third countries . 
This particularly applies , however , to our own coastal waters . 
Given this context , I would like to tell you about something that happened a few days ago . 
I discovered that the EU is using ERDF resources to finance the construction of a wharf in Vilagarcia , in Galicia , for storing chemical and hydrocarbon products , on a site which will only employ three workers . This contravenes the EC environmental impact directive in relation to an estuary such as Arousa , where 26 000 people earn a living from the seafood industry . 
Can I first of all congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report . 
Conservation is something that I hear on many occasions and a lot of people pay lip service to it . 
A lot of people are all in favour of it until it arrives on their own doorstep . 
It is all very well to talk about conservation and I agree with it totally . 
But at the end of the day one has got to strike the balance between those who are dependent on their life and their livelihood from the sea and those who are making the laws which govern who may or may not fish and where , when and how they may fish in any particular waters within the European Union . 
Commissioner Fischler , of course , knows me from a long time back and I have written to him on BSE and many other issues in agriculture but now that he is responsible for fisheries I am going to have to berate him on fisheries , along with his lusty colleagues , because one of the areas that has been most affected has been my region and the fishermen of Northern Ireland . 
In actual fact they have had a moratorium imposed upon them without any recompense , without any real negotiation or discussion . 
It has been imposed upon them that they cannot fish for about an 11 to 12 week period . 
Now we all accept that there is a problem in conservation and a problem of stocks , but what I am really saying to you Commissioner , and I have said this to you in the Fisheries Committee and I will say it to you again : There is a wide divide between Brussels and the working fishermen . 
It does not matter whether you come from Galicia , it does not matter whether you are from Northern Ireland or whether you are from Scotland . 
That chasm exists and we in Brussels have not been able to cross that divide . 
And we have got to take on board the views of the fishermen . 
We have got to take on board the concerns of the fishermen and we have got to work closely with them and I hope that you , as the Commissioner responsible for fisheries , will recognise that divide and will try and work as closely as you possibly can to ensure that all sides are brought together and their views are taken on board . 
Thank you very much , Commissioner Fischler . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a . m . 
Bankruptcy procedures
The next item is the report A5 - 0039 / 2000 by Mr Lechner , on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market , on the initiative of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Republic of Finland , with a view to the adoption of a Council regulation on insolvency proceedings ( 9178 / 1999 - C5 - 0069 / 1999 - 1999 / 0806 ( CNS ) ) . 
Mr President , I think we all agree that a European legal area must be created . 
We also all agree that there should be harmonisation in a field that is marked by the great disparity of our legal systems and , what is more , concepts . 
The very word bankruptcy , the legal concept of bankruptcy , does not cover the same accounting concept in each of the Member States of the Union . 
We therefore all agree on the established facts , and the draft regulation and the report are going in the right direction . 
If I may , however , just make a few comments on the method . 
When you observe - and you cannot fail to do so - the disparity in the legal systems and concepts , and the fact that we wish to improve coordination , I believe that there are three ways in which we can proceed . 
The first is to establish equivalence , saying : in the final analysis , bankruptcy in France is the same thing as bankruptcy in England or in Germany . 
The second way is to recreate a law ex nihilo , that is to say , to harmonise the systems and completely overhaul all the concepts and legal systems in each of the Member States . 
That is not the route that has been taken . 
The third route that has been taken is in the end to superimpose above the existing systems , which are not touched , a real embryo of Community law of collective procedures and procedures for companies in difficulty . 
This is a good thing , moreover , and the result has probably exceeded what the authors had hoped for . 
But at this stage I should like to make an observation , which is not technical , but more philosophical and taken from practice . 
It is that bankruptcy is experienced within the European Union , in the majority of States , as an absolutely definitive event for the person it affects . 
And I believe that it is our responsibility , in an ever more rapidly moving economy , where everyone must have a real opportunity , to give people the chance of running a commercial enterprise , and a second and a third chance , if necessary . 
Today , in many Member States , that is not possible . 
One of the reasons that explains the difference in competitiveness between the European area , for example and the United States , is precisely this ability of bouncing back that exists on the other side of the Atlantic and that we just do not have here . 
I believe that since we have gone that far and we are continuing along that path , which is the route of creating a collective procedure for regulating this type of legal standard in the European Union , we should bear in mind that it should not become the allegorical figure of the guillotine . 
Mr President , Commissioner , I believe , in fact , that it is more by luck than skill that there have not so far been any disasters due to the absence of the rules mentioned by the previous speakers . 
When we deal with the positive side of the single market and create a common internal market , we must also deal with the darker side , namely bankruptcies . 
I consider that we are experiencing an historic moment in this regard . 
I congratulate the rapporteur for having so quickly progressed further with his report . 
I am , moreover , proud that my own country has been involved in tabling this regulation which we now hope will swiftly be adopted by the Council . 
I think it is an important step we are taking , even if each of the national systems is not especially influenced by it . 
To the rapporteur ' s regret , I must unfortunately point out that our Group cannot support Amendment No 3 because we consider that it restricts creditors ' legal position and impairs their legal protection . 
With regard to Amendment No 6 , we tabled a similar amendment in the negotiations in committee . 
I am a little surprised that you in the Group of the Party of European Socialists did not support it then . 
We shall now support your Amendment No 6 , but I wonder why you did not support our own amendment in committee . 
I also hope that we produce some insight in this context and that we shall be able to compare which procedures are quickest and best in the various countries . 
 . 
 ( PT ) Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , first of all , the Commission wishes to emphasise above all that the draft regulation being debated this evening is merely an amendment of the 1995 Convention on insolvency proceedings . 
As you all know , this convention was the result of many years of discussion , which was often difficult and often laborious , and that for this very reason , it represents a compromise between unitary and territorial principles , that is to say , the structural principles of the different legal insolvency proceedings in each of our Member States . 
Because we are aware that the developing global economic situation , and particularly the single market , can force businesses to resort more frequently to insolvency proceedings , which often take the form of cross - border proceedings , the Union itself is fully justified in equipping itself with the binding legal instruments it needs to ensure that insolvency proceedings are carried out according to a set of common structural principles , thus ensuring that they are carried out swiftly . 
For better or for worse , the fact that businesses become insolvent will become an increasingly common occurrence in our daily economic life . 
It will furthermore be a factor in renewing the very fabric of business , which must not be hindered by the existence of slow bureaucratic procedures or by obstacles that prolong the agony of businesses that are no longer viable . 
This is why it is important to try to find a legal frame of reference which can adapt to the new requirements of a global economy . 
It was not the Commission that presented the present proposal for a regulation but two Member States , Germany and Finland , by means of a joint initiative under the right of initiative which Member States share with the Commission on such issues . 
The Commission considers that this regulation makes no substantive amendment to the text of the Convention . 
As far back as 1981 , the Commission had already stated its position in favour of clearly adopting the principle of unitary insolvency proceedings . 
Furthermore , this view was accepted in the Commission ' s proposals on a parallel procedure concerning the liquidation of businesses . 
The 1995 Convention , on the other hand , authorises the filing of secondary proceedings , thereby creating situations which are exceptions to the general rule that the Commission would like to see accepted . 
Following the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam , the Commission would therefore have preferred that a new text be adopted , one which would specifically enshrine the principle of unitary proceedings . 
Nevertheless , I do not think that this is the time to call into question the agreement obtained in the 1995 Convention which was , moreover , based on a timescale for negotiations of approximately thirty years . 
Consequently , the Commission has refrained from presenting an amendment . Instead , it has limited itself to focusing its opinions on institutional issues . 
The Commission feels , for this reason too , that it should not present a modified proposal for amendments to the regulation , but I would nevertheless like to convey to you the Commission ' s opinions on the amendments under discussion . 
The Commission therefore accepts Amendments Nos 1 , 2 , 3 and 5 proposed by the rapporteur , Mr Lechner . 
On the other hand , it does not accept Amendment No 4 . Indeed , the Commission feels that Parliament should instead support Amendment No 4 by the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs , which would allow the annexes to the regulation to be modified by the Commission , assisted by a regulatory committee , in accordance with the on - going procedure of Article 5 of Decision 1999 / 468 / EC . 
Therefore , with regard to the amendments proposed by the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs , the Commission accepts Amendments Nos 3 and 4 . On the other hand , it does not accept Amendments Nos 1 and 2 , on the idea of " centre of the debtor ' s main interests "  . 
With regard to the centre of main interests of a company or of a legal person , this idea is clearly defined in Article 3 . 
In all other cases that have not been specifically addressed , we feel that the reference made in Recital 13 should be sufficient . 
Thank you very much , Commissioner Vitorino . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a . m . 
 ( The sitting was suspended at 12 . 05 a . m . ) 
Shipwreck of the Erika
The next item is the oral question ( B5 - 0011 / 2000 ) by Mr Varela Suanzes - Carpegna , on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries , to the Commission , on the shipwreck of the Erika . 
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , firstly I want to warmly thank Mr Fischler for being here today . 
Our President told us yesterday that the Commissioner would be unable to attend today due to prior commitments . 
He must have reconsidered and , in so doing , has , as usual , shown great respect for this House . I thank him for this . 
On behalf of the Committee on Fisheries , I must highlight our concerns about the shipwreck of the tanker Erika . 
There are two political reasons why our committee and myself as its chairman must speak out about this issue . 
Firstly , we must show the Commission , the Council and the Member States that this House cannot and will not forget about this serious incident . 
Secondly , we must focus today on one specific aspect of this terrible environmental disaster , namely its effect on the fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the affected regions . 
The epilogue to this disaster must surely be the urgent adoption of measures to minimise the damage and to prevent this happening again in the future . 
Enough regrets and thoughts have been expressed about this event . 
We must now get down to adopting measures , Commissioner . 
Firstly , efficient controls are needed in Community waters and ports in order to ensure safety in maritime transport , particularly where oil and dangerous goods are involved . 
The construction of these vessels , the use of double hulls , their age , their control by classification companies , insurance , the creation of databases containing all relevant information , Community cooperation and coordination , the reinforcement of control by inspectors and the liability of carriers and owners of cargoes are all issues which must be tackled . Who better than the European Commission to make serious proposals for European harmonisation in these areas ? 
Flags of convenience must also be specifically monitored and regulated in maritime transport , particularly as they do so much damage to the fisheries which we have taken to calling ' responsible fisheries '  . 
Access into Community waters of vessels flying flags of convenience which do not meet Community safety standards must be controlled . 
We expect concrete action from the European Commission . The fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the affected areas of Brittany and the Vendée are particularly important , well - developed and prestigious . 
The European Commission must therefore publicise the damage caused and its assessment of this damage . It must also indicate all the specific measures , including political , economic , social and financial measures , which it intends to adopt in order to minimise the damage and compensate the fishermen and industries which have been dramatically affected overnight . 
How can consumer confidence in products from this area be regained ? 
How can those affected be compensated ? 
This is a very serious problem which the European Union , as an economic , commercial , industrial and fishing power , must tackle . 
We must get to work and lead the way in these issues which are damaging our environment and destroying industries and occupations . 
We must adopt preventative measures which can stop disasters like this from happening in the future . 
This is the essence of my oral question on behalf of all the members of the Committee on Fisheries . 
We hope to hear specific proposals from the Commission , with plenty of action and no more regrets . 
This House will today approve a very important and appropriate joint motion for a resolution tabled by several groups . 
Mr President , the shipwreck of the Erika off the coast of Brittany on 12 December caused an oil slick whose effects on the environment will be felt for years . 
In addition to destroying natural resources , this accident has had a serious impact on certain economic sectors , particularly those dependent on fisheries . 
With 20 000 tonnes of crude oil left in the holds of the sunken vessel , the situation could still deteriorate . 
The consequences of this accident have been disastrous for the aquaculture and ostreiculture sectors which were defenceless against the pollution that could not be prevented from coming ashore . These consequences not only stem from the pollution which occurred immediately after the accident but also the subsequent loss of market share and the rejection by the consumer of a fully guaranteed product which is now affected by the pollution itself . 
The regions affected are outlying ones with an unstable economic balance . They have been profoundly affected by this oil slick which , unfortunately , is not an isolated event . 
The main resources of these and neighbouring regions are those granted by nature , which is nowadays too often being punished by man ' s activities . 
These events could be prevented with more care and control by the public authorities . 
Prevention is better than cure or so the saying goes . 
Surely the budget would agree , as prevention is much cheaper than the cost of disasters like these . 
Mr Fischler says that he always comes to the House when asked . 
Yet on the issue of the Erika he has given the impression , perhaps not to us but certainly to the inhabitants of Brittany and the Vendée , that , as the Fisheries Commissioner , he is not always available or , at best , available only on a part - time basis . 
As this House indicated in its first resolution on 20 January , the needs of the severely affected fisheries , ostreiculture and tourism industries must be taken into account . 
We therefore now call upon the Commission to urgently adopt measures to help the fisheries sector by means of special funds . 
Galicia and Brittany now have the common ground of having suffered from oil slicks . 
We cannot understand how it is that experiences like the Urquiola or Amoco Cadiz have not served to reinforce legislation on maritime transport in terms of both controlling safety in the movement of dangerous goods and flags of convenience . 
Please let this be the last disaster of its type and let us learn all possible lessons from this . 
We must urgently amend our legislation and close the loopholes which keep allowing these terrible disasters to happen . 
The polluter pays principle is both necessary and appropriate . 
It is time that polluters started to pay because , up to now , it has been those affected and taxpayers who have paid , and they have not just paid but cleaned up the affected areas as well . 
I am therefore delighted at Mr Fischler ' s response , particularly his recognition of the need to apply retroactive measures and to give a rapid response to the applications submitted . 
On behalf of the PSE Group , I want to send a message of solidarity to those affected , to the fishermen , farmers and businesspeople who enable the products of the sea to be regularly brought to market . My message of solidarity also goes out to the mayors and politicians , to the volunteers who have worked to clean the affected areas and to all those who deserve our full support . 
