I wish to put two questions to the Commissioner . 
Parliament has passed a resolution calling for the polluter pays principle to be applied in this instance and for both the shipowners and the owners of the cargo to be liable . 
The question for the Commissioner is really whether these principles can actually be applied and whether we will get any money by way of compensation from these people . 
The second point relates to the future and the publication of the Commission ' s White Paper on environmental liability which is designed to ensure that the polluter pays principle applies in future and to ensure that we are better able to enforce European environmental legislation properly . 
It is recognised in that White Paper that liability is only effective where the polluter can be identified , where the damage can be quantified and where a clear causal connection can be made between the two . 
The Erika incident could not illustrate the point more clearly because it sums up exactly what that White Paper is seeking to address . 
This question really would therefore seem to be a perfect measure of how to deal with problems of this kind in future . 
The proposed directive provides for strict liability for damage caused by EU - regulated dangerous activities and my concern , and perhaps the Commissioner can deal with this , is whether or not the environmental liability paper will be able to deal with problems of the type of Erika in future . 
Will it really address the concern or will , in practice , in the case of maritime accidents involving ships on the high seas , the polluter once again escape from having to pay for the damage they cause . 
Mr President , our sympathy and our solidarity go out to those people and regions stricken by the disaster , but good intentions are not enough , there must be compensation for the damage and losses covering both the restoration of the environment and the shellfish farms and fishing equipment . 
We are pleased to hear the Commissioner announce the urgent need to act and to offer compensation , and for this to be backdated . 
We also deplore the excessively lax application of vessel inspection , and we are in favour of creating a European coast guard authority , and also , in particular , of introducing more binding regulations and making double hulls mandatory . 
We further deplore the system of flags of convenience with regard to both merchant vessels and fishing boats . 
Finally , we were shocked to learn that the cargo was extremely carcinogenic , with a polyaromatic hydrocarbon content of more than 1 000 parts per million . 
This means that the 15 000 tonnes of cargo released into the sea include 15 tonnes of highly toxic products . 
This is not acceptable . 
We only found out too late and , as a result , medical inspection must be provided , paying special attention to the volunteers who dedicated themselves to restoring the environment . 
Finally , we think it absolutely essential to pay particular attention to preventing such risks , as well as to scientific research work in order to avoid and eliminate damage . 
A great many proposals have been made which warrant investigation . 
Solutions cannot be found at the last minute , when the disaster is already in progress . Consequently , the bulk of the action must be taken beforehand . 
Mr President , over two months after the wreck of the Erika , pollution of the coasts , which have already been cleaned once , is still continuing . 
While reiterating my solidarity with all the victims of this , I should like to salute the dedication of the workers , professionals and volunteers , who are still involved in cleaning the polluted beaches . 
Thanks to the grass - roots involvement , which this House furthered by organising a debate and adopting a resolution on 20 January , an initial raft of measures has been announced . 
The French Government has initiated a discussion and made proposals to strengthen maritime safety , particularly by fighting against the phenomenon of flags of convenience and by implementing much more extensive inspection . 
The lessons of this latest oil slick must be learnt in full , and decisions must be taken speedily at Community level to prevent coffin ships sailing off our shores or berthing in our ports , to make double hulls mandatory for the transportation of pollutants , and to strengthen standards for safety and inspection . 
We must also demand that the parties truly responsible be made to pay the costs incurred due to the pollution . 
So , yes , Total Fina must provide the financial resources to contribute to the repair of ecological , economic and social damage and to compensate the people affected by the disaster . 
The French State has released funds for compensating damage . 
I feel , however , that the European Union has so far not actually come up with any expression of Community solidarity at the requisite level . 
So , yes , appropriations must be released at Community level to support the cleaning of the contaminated coastlines , to assist the organisations which went into action to save oil - covered birds , and to contribute towards getting the affected businesses back on their feet . 
Specific compensation should be provided for the fishermen and shellfish farmers who have suffered considerable loss of income and who face having to invest considerable sums in order to repair everything and regain consumer confidence . 
I was pleased to hear the statement which Commissioner Fischler has just made , and I take careful note of the commitments he made before this House . 
I should also like to say that my Group shall remain vigilant and committed , in collaboration with the grass - roots action groups , to ensuring that the parties affected receive compensation as soon as possible and that legislation is strengthened at every level , supported by realistic penalties in the event of non - compliance . 
Mr President , the reason why it is important to return to the subject of the oil slick , two and a half months after the wreck of the Erika , is because the extent of the economic , social and ecological disaster affecting our Atlantic coastline is , in fact , far greater than the first assessments gave us to understand . 
Cakes of tar are still washing in along 500 km of the Atlantic coastline on a daily basis . 
Curiously , the exact composition of the cargo has still not been clarified . 
The ecological disaster is a major one , possibly unprecedented in scale . 
Large - scale degassing proliferates and the 16 000 tonnes of tar remaining in the wreck at a depth of 120 m present a major risk of fresh pollution . 
All workers in the fishing , fish farming and aquaculture sectors have already been hit hard . 
The chief victims today are the shellfish farmers who were once the most successful producers in Europe . 
The frontline victims are the producers or freight forwarders banned in the Vendée and Loire - Atlantique regions . 
Some of them have already lost several years ' worth of harvests , but the 50 % to 80 % slump in sales is affecting all the harbours on the Atlantic coastline , and even those in the Channel and North Sea . 
As regards fishing proper , passive gear fishing is currently the hardest hit . 
After shellfish , the slump is now affecting crustacean sales . 
The many fishing days lost affect the entire industry and , above all , the future of fishery products , an area in which prices had seen something of a turnaround in very recent years , now hangs entirely on consumer reaction and we are starting to see signs , unfortunately , of initial disenchantment . 
The two principle resources of the Atlantic shore , fishing and tourism , both closely interrelated , have both been seriously affected . 
There is a danger that the season will be lost , resulting in an extremely serious crisis by the end of the year . 
The fact that Parliament is presenting a new resolution , one to which our Group has made a significant contribution , is therefore perfectly justifiable . 
It emphasises a number of points deemed crucial at grass roots level . 
The first point is that the polluter must accept his liability in full . 
Our resolution calls for two principles to be applied : the first is the ' polluter cleans ' principle , since it is unacceptable that the cleaning of coasts polluted by hydrocarbon cargoes should be borne by the local authorities , i . e . the taxpayers , i . e . the victims , and not the cargo owner . 
The second principle is the ' polluter pays ' principle . 
According to our resolution , the polluter ' s liability must extend to fishing , fish farming and aquaculture industries and businesses . 
This is essential . It means that the polluter cannot claim to limit the amount of compensation for victims in line with the ceiling set by FIPOL , which is to say , by the goodwill of the major oil companies . 
If the FIPOL ceiling is insufficient , and it has clearly been underestimated , then it must be raised . 
Our resolution calls for this . 
If the increase is not enough then the polluter should pay the balance . 
It would be particularly unfair to have an oil company , whose profits this year amount to FRF 10 billion , refusing to give 100 % compensation to its own victims , the great majority of whom are small businesses and employees . 
Commissioner , the stricken people await tangible expressions of solidarity at European level . 
Our resolution calls upon the Commission to take the necessary steps to assist in repairing the damage caused in the fishing industry affected by the consequences of the disaster . 
Maritime Europe and the CFP must today demonstrate that , in addition to imposing constraints on fishermen , it is not unfamiliar with the concept of solidarity . 
The European Union must also participate in the restoration of the wetland and coastal environments affected , whose biological value is important to the Union as a whole . 
Mr Fischler has just told us that he would welcome France ' s requests . I am pleased to hear it . 
We must act as a catalyst in this crucial issue of maritime pollution . 
Twenty years after the Amoco Cadiz disaster laxness and irresponsibility still reign supreme in Europe in matters of maritime safety , resulting in yet more oil slicks . 
This time , we must not let inertia win the day . 
A basis for maritime safety must be drawn up speedily , respecting the principle of subsidiarity , and we must at long last put an end to this downward spiral of widespread irresponsibility . 
Mr President , the economy of the western Atlantic coastline has been devastated , polluted by oil from the Erika . 
Fishermen , oyster farmers , shellfish farmers , workers in the tourist industry , and local and regional authorities are growing impatient while waiting for aid and for someone to deal with the time - bomb which the apparently still leaking wreck represents . 
Having withdrawn the budget line for ' natural disasters affecting Member States ' with such poor timing , Europe has a duty to respond , firstly in the name of solidarity but also because it shares responsibility in this umpteenth oil slick disaster . 
European citizens find it hard to understand why Europe accepts conditions which the Americans refuse and why Europe , normally so quick to pass environmental legislation , has until now blocked any measures to do with maritime safety . 
Europe must pass legislation at the earliest possible opportunity and investigate the matter of this wreck thoroughly , but , in the meantime , the Commission must , as a matter of urgency , harness European funds to aid the businesses affected in order to deal with the wreck , clean up the coastline , increase the capacity of waste storage facilities , ensure that waste is processed or recycled , and set up a research programme into the recovery of oil spilt at sea . 
Finally , the Commission must reintroduce an appropriate budget line for ' natural disasters involving Member States '  , and make the regions affected eligible for Structural Funds . 
What is the Commission ' s view of these proposals ? 
What decisions has the Commission already taken and what decisions does it plan to take ? 
How did the Commission follow up the resolution which the European Parliament adopted on 20 January 2000 ? 
We have not , thus far , seen any practical action whatsoever . 
Mr President , recent history and the Erika shipwreck , in particular , have shown that our coasts are under constant threat from shipping disasters . 
The debate on preventing these disasters has already been held in Strasbourg and it highlighted the importance of a European plan for maritime safety . 
In addition to prevention , however , we should not be blind to the ramifications of such disasters , not least the ecological ramifications . 
Many hundreds of kilometres of French coastline have been polluted . 
Thousands of fish and birds have been killed . 
It cannot be ruled out that certain habitats may have been permanently damaged , and the restoration of the environment is often a long drawn - out process . 
