Mr President , Commissioner , I would first like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for having taken due account of the proposed amendments while the committee was debating it . 
The sixth periodical report gives a basis for assessing the implementation of the Union ' s regional policy aims . The report shows that growth has been uneven , despite all our efforts . 
Very rapid growth is continuing in Central Europe . The strongest regional centres also continue to grow faster than the general European average , whereas many southern European and northern areas are developing considerably more slowly . 
We now require an in - depth analysis of why regional policy is not producing the desired result in all areas . 
Is the reason bureaucracy or is it because insufficient notice has been taken of interregional differences , long distances , climates that are too cold or too hot , sparse populations and austere conditions ? 
How can the Union respond to the challenges of global development in a way that the less developed areas can remain a part of that development ? 
It is also important to discover what the effects of Union enlargement will be on Structural Funds and the development of the Union ' s more remote areas . 
The Member States must also bear in mind their responsibility . 
Some Member States have been in breach of the principle of subsidiarity and cut national regional funds when regional aid coming via the Union has been increased . 
This has chipped away at the results that regional policy has produced . 
In the future , we must also develop indicators so that measures can be targeted at the right time at the right place . 
For example , uncontrolled migration has not been given sufficient consideration . 
In this connection , too , weight has to be given to the decisive importance of SMEs as employers and forces behind regional development . 
It is absolutely essential that companies in areas developing more slowly adopt the latest technology and know - how . 
Our Group is in favour of adopting this report . 
Mr President , Commissioner , the European Union ' s regional policy has , until now , not been able to interpret , in any significant way , the existing differences in our inhabitants ' incomes . 
We have a serious situation in which in the European Union today , there is a genuine link between unemployment and poverty , as demonstrated by the very worrying fact that unemployment has reached , on average , 23 . 7 % in the regions worst affected , regions which also happen to be poor areas , whilst in the 25 regions with the lowest unemployment , corresponding to the richer areas , unemployment stands at just 4 % . 
Given this situation , the report approved by Parliament must highlight the need for measures that aim unequivocally to fight relative poverty and unemployment : measures such as the appropriate use of structural funds for these purposes , which are often misspent , with centralised state policies and the modernisation of telecommunication and communication systems , with the particular aim of integrating the least developed regions into the Trans - European rail Networks , which are due in 2007 . 
There should also be measures that respect and develop the resources and capabilities of these countries ' agriculture and fisheries , which are often harmed by the European Union ' s own insensitive policies , as well as the promotion of active policies to create jobs , particularly for women and young people . Only through the decisive application of this kind of measure will we be able to overcome social and regional inequality , which is not the historical product of inherent defects but of marginalisation and economic policies which have had harmful effects . 
Mr President , Commissioner , Mr Berend ' s report is precisely in line with the strategy determined by the European Commission inasmuch as the question of increasing competitiveness is brought right to the fore . 
The overarching objectives of the structural funds such as job creation , boosting equality of opportunity , increasing the sustainability of employment and development , are only mentioned in passing . 
This attitude appears to me to be unjustified . I would also ask that a great deal more emphasis be placed on these points in the seventh periodic report . 
This does not mean that I do not see the need for competitiveness , particularly as I myself am an entrepreneur in an Objective 1 Region , that is in Brandenburg in the Federal Republic of Germany , and am only too aware of the problems and concerns of small and medium - sized enterprises . 
It is absolutely crucial that parallel temporary measures be introduced in the Objective 1 Regions , that is to say job creation measures , special programmes for supporting employment opportunities for women and initiatives to help people set up their own business . 
They are supported by appropriate European Union structural fund activities . 
Supporting only the competitiveness of companies will never be able to compensate for the envisaged cohesion between economic and social development , simply because there is no basis for a self - supporting upturn in these Objective 1 Regions . 
After all , the knowledge that economic development alone does not help to combat unemployment substantiates the fact than an increase of at least 3 % in gross domestic product is needed to create any additional jobs at all . 
Concentrating to the exclusion of all else on supply and demand - orientated economic policy is not the answer . 
And those that do pursue such a policy must invest in expansion for the most part and , to a lesser extent , in rationalisation . 
It is imperative for this to go hand in hand with a demand - orientated economic policy if we are to have any chance at all of improving the social situation in these areas . 
The situation varies to an enormous degree throughout the regions . 
In other words , what is needed is a number of accompanying measures if anything at all is to be accomplished there . 
For example , these would be measures for vocational training , for further education , for re - integrating people who have already been excluded from the production process , for the flexibilisation of working time and working time arrangements , in order to bring about a definite improvement in the integration of personal and social aspects and perhaps also to promote employment opportunities for women again . 
Mr President , my compliments to the rapporteur for his in - depth report . 
The key goal of the structural funds is to strengthen social and economic cohesion between the regions within the European Union . 
By stimulating a diversity of investments , the European Union is endeavouring to increase the GDP per capita and to boost employment . 
From the sixth periodic report on the regions , one can draw the hesitant conclusion that these incentives do not always have the desired effect . 
The efforts made in order to drive up the GDP per capita in Objective 1 regions do not always result in such an increase , not really a satisfying result over a period during which , certainly over the past couple of years , there has been economic growth . 
As indicated by the rapporteur , the effects of the structural measures , on the other hand , are minimal as far as employment is concerned . 
Some reservation about the effectiveness of Community aid is therefore called for . 
Also , the observation that the disparities between regions within Member States sometimes even become more pronounced raises serious questions . 
Mr President , it therefore seems worthwhile and necessary to focus attention on both national and regional authorities , especially in connection with boosting employment . 
It is , after all , they who have most knowledge about the regions which fall under their remit . 
By allowing them to develop tailor - made plans for the relevant regions and , if necessary , tying this in with financial aid , a higher return can be achieved . 
Surely this must be the ultimate goal . 
I am therefore in favour of the Commission delegating the practical details and implementation of measures to the Member States and regions . 
Following on from this , it is probably also more meaningful , with regard to the financial aid to regions , to give Member States more say anyway . 
By shifting the criteria from the regions to the Member States , we can avoid a great deal of problems later on . 
Finally , I would like to draw attention to the position of the Central and Eastern European countries . 
The report shows that , in general , they are a long way behind EU countries , especially in terms of GDP per capita . 
With the planned accession of a large number of these countries in the foreseeable future , it is a matter of urgency to review the current structural policy . 
I would like to take this opportunity to follow the example of others and call on the Commission to submit proposals for reform sooner rather than later . 
Mr President , Commissioner , following close scrutiny of this report one cannot escape the conclusion that it was possible to fulfil the stated objective of the structural policy only in part . 
For example , whilst the disparities between the regions have increased rather than decreased , there has been a certain amount of convergence between the Member States themselves in this respect . 
Equally , unemployment levels in the worst affected regions barely fell at all , indeed they rose in some cases . 
I wonder why it is that the structural funds are not employed more efficiently . 
Even the accumulation of money from the cohesion funds and the structural funds has failed to have the desired effect in all regions and countries . 
Since it is the declared aim of all politicians throughout Europe to reduce unemployment , then one must pose the critical question as to whether the policy employed is the right one or whether it would not be more appropriate to boost the competitiveness of the regions by appropriate measures such as increased support for research and development , improvements in infrastructure and raising the level of training . 
Genuine structural reforms and a competition - friendly taxation policy are the cornerstones of a successful economic base . 
If we do not wish to stand accused of pursuing a cost - intensive structural policy that does nothing to improve the unemployment situation in the long term , then the measures drawn up so far must be analysed . 
We will only be able to say that the structural policy of the Union has been a success when we manage to create a sufficient number of jobs and when there is a significant reduction in the unemployment rate . 
Mr President , Commissioner , my thanks go to the rapporteur for handling this very important report , because developments in the social and economic situation will decide to what extent the citizens of Europe will judge that we have been successful in our work . 
This issue , which has an impact on their everyday life , is a key issue as regards EU credibility . 
It has to be conceded that the EU has already aided , I would say quite magnificently , the development of poor countries . 
I remember what Portugal and Greece used to be like when I drove through those countries for the first time twenty - five years ago . 
In this connection , French speakers would speak of a " coup de chapeau "  : in other words , I take my hat off to the EU . 
The EU really deserves such a gesture , but differences between rich and poor areas within countries are still too great . 
What is the result ? 
People react by voting with their feet and go where they can earn a crust . 
Consequently , we have to build schools , hospitals , and the whole infrastructure for the same people in the same country many times over . 
This is very costly and it also causes very great social problems . 
Most people , however , would like to live in the area in which they were born and raised , if they were given the chance to , in other words , if there was work there . 
We must give them this opportunity . 
This is a moral obligation the EU and all of us have . 
The solution , as I see it , lies in clearly encouraging entrepreneurship . 
By entrepreneurship I do not simply mean the ownership of business , but creating will . 
I mean the attitude where a person wants to get on in life , whether he or she is an employee , the owner of a business or an official . 
What is a fair society ? 
One in which someone from a modest background can get on in life so as to make life a little easier for his or her children . 
In this way , positive development of the regions is also possible , because people will start business and will work if they are given the chance . 
Finally , I would say that in this matter we should learn a lesson from America , where hard work is still in fashion and success is an indication of ability and not the object of envy , as it often is here in Europe . 
Mr President , Commissioner , as my time is limited , I shall get straight to the point . 
Firstly , let me make a statement of fact : the fruits of growth are not distributed equitably within the Union . 
The most remote regions , still hard hit by catastrophic unemployment rates , offer one example of this . 
In Reunion , for example , the rate is 37 % . 
This is not a situation related to the economic climate , however ; rather it is a structural problem , created by our remoteness , our insularity , in short , our own specific personality . 
The principle of specific , exceptional treatment was envisaged in Article 299 ( 2 ) of the Treaty of Amsterdam in order to deal with such cases . 
It only remains to put this principle into practice . 
The Commission document expected to be ready in December 1999 was delayed until January , then February , and the initial thinking does not fill me with much optimism . 
I therefore appeal formally to the Council and the Commission . 
As regards taxation , state aid , the Structural Funds and defending our traditional products , practical measures characterised by daring and ambition must be planned as a matter of urgency . 
If these do not materialise , then , unfortunately , convergence and cohesion will remain no more than words for us , and it is to be feared that the structural policy undertaken in our regions , despite the size of the amounts committed , will end in failure . 
Thank you very much , Commissioner . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p . m . 
 ( The sitting was closed at 8 . 25 p . m . ) 
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
The Minutes of yesterday ' s sitting have been distributed . 
Are there any comments ? 
Mr President , I respond to an invitation yesterday afternoon by the President of the House to speak on behalf of my group on a matter referred to in the Minutes . 
I refer to item 11 on the order of business . 
Firstly , I believe the issue raised by the President of the Socialist Group yesterday about the reinstatement of the debate with the President of the Commission on the five - year strategic programme was sufficiently important for other speakers who wished to comment briefly on that matter to have been accommodated . 
I wish to express that view even if I respectfully disagreed and voted against the proposal of the President of the Socialist Group . 
The second point I would like to make - and which I would have wished to make yesterday before the vote - is that this Parliament , as other speakers remarked yesterday , can only really have an effect if it works in close cooperation and synergy with the European Commission . 
We should also have the humility to recognise that , if we wanted to have a strategic debate accompanied not just by a presentation and elucidation by the President of the Commission , but also by a five - year programme , we should have the mechanisms in place more than just a week in advance of the debate in this House , so as to be able to discuss and convey in due time to the Commission what our wishes were . 
There is one basic lesson I would like us to learn from this . 
When there are major set - piece debates scheduled between this House and the European Commission in the future , we should clear all of our lines on what are our mutual expectations at least one full working month in advance . 
There needs firstly to be clarity between all of the groups of this House and then between this House and the Commission . 
We should not find ourselves late in the day in the unfortunate position where the one or other institution creates an unnecessary fracture in institutional relationships . 
Looking at some of the press reports of last Friday , I believe that the Commission and its President exercised commendable self - restraint in the way they commented publicly . 
That is something for which I have a deep appreciation . 
I hope that we will learn the lessons and not repeat this unnecessary exercise which I believe was founded on a misapprehension as to what was expected rather than any bad faith on the part of either of the two institutions . 
It should not be dramatised into something more than that . 
Thank you very much , Mr Cox . 
I understand what you are saying . 
We have taken note of this . 
Mr President , concerning item 11 of the Minutes on the order of business , we agreed yesterday to have the Bourlanges report on today ' s agenda . 
However , it was withdrawn from the Committee on Budgets last night without being discussed or voted on . 
It therefore needs to be withdrawn from today ' s agenda . 
Mr Wynn , that makes sense . 
The report is hereby withdrawn from the agenda . 
Mr President , regarding Mrs Lynne ' s comments yesterday about health and safety in this building , I presume she was talking about the drains because there is a dreadful smell of drains on the fifth floor in the Tower . 
This needs to be looked into because it is clearly an indication that something is seriously wrong . 
I do not want to drag up the issue of this building endlessly , but this is a serious problem . 
Mrs Ahern , we have taken note of this . 
I would ask you to bring this specific case , which has to do with the ventilators on a particular floor , to the attention of the Quaestors , who are , in fact , responsible for the matter . 
We will also pass this on to our services , however . 
Thank you very much . 
 ( The Minutes were approved ) 
Reform of European competition policy
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports : 
A5 - 0069 / 1999 by Mr von Wogau , on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , on the Commission White Paper on modernisation of the rules implementing Articles 85 and 86 of the EC Treaty [ COM ( 1999 ) 101 - C5 - 0105 / 1999 - 1999 / 2108 ( COS ) ] ; 
A5 - 0078 / 1999 by Mr Rapkay , on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , on the European Commission ' s XXVIIIth Report on Competition Policy 1998 [ SEK ( 1999 ) 743 - C5 - 0121 / 1999 - 1999 / 2124 ( COS ) ] ; 
A5 - 0087 / 1999 by Mr Jonckheer , on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , on the seventh survey on state aid in the European Union in the manufacturing and certain other sectors .  [ COM ( 1999 ) 148 - C5 - 0107 / 1999 - 1999 / 2110 ( COS ) ]  ( Report 1995 - 1997 ) ; 
A5 - 0073 / 1999 by Mr Langen , on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , on the Commission Report on the implementation in 1998 of Commission Decision No . 2496 / 96 / ECSC of 18 December 1996 establishing Community rules for State aid to the steel industry ( Steel Aid Code ) .  [ COM ( 1999 ) 94 - C5 - 0104 / 1999 - 1999 / 2107 ( COS ) ] . 
Mr President , Commissioner , today we are engaged in an important debate about the European Union ' s competition policy . 
We are debating a highly controversial modernisation proposal for European monopolies law , that is Mr von Wogau ' s report , and it is far more controversial than the vote in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs may have given us reason to believe . 
I want to make it quite clear that in this specific case I personally consider the Commission ' s proposal to be wrong and feel that it remains to be seen as to whether we are truly justified in using the term " modernisation " to describe the content of Articles 81 and 82 of the White Paper , or whether in this case it would be more appropriate to use the expression " retrograde step "  . 
However , we are also discussing the aid report today and the general competition report for 1998 , and my contribution to this joint debate relates to the latter . 
But , of course , both the competition report and the aid report share common ground in this White Paper . 
It is all about the need for modernisation and the future viability of the European competition policy . 
On reading both Commission documents , one learns that 1998 was the year in which the modernisation proposals introduced in 1997 were pursued and even partially completed , which is something our own ongoing parliamentary work has taught us . 
Allow me to make two fundamental comments at this juncture . As the competent authority , the Commission , with its logically consistent approach , has again and again served the cause of freedom of competition , not always to the delight of the Member States or enterprises concerned . 
It should continue along this path . 
But , Commissioner , none of this is to become less complicated in future - one only has to think of the challenges posed by the enlargement of the Union , the deepening of the internal market , technological progress , globalisation . 
Indeed , it is not just about modernisation of Community law , more than anything it is about transparency of decisions taken in individual cases , about the possibility of decisions actually being able to implement decisions , for the European competition policy will be dependent on the population ' s acceptance , together with that of the political bodies and enterprises concerned . 
Only , without transparency there will be no acceptance , indeed there can be no modernisation without transparency . 
The competition report 1998 is not a bad foundation for this but , in fact , there is nothing that could not be further improved upon . 
Our motion will give you a great deal of food for thought , Commissioner , but there is one point that I would just like to go into now . Transparency and accountability belong together . 
I do not wish to call the distribution of competences between the Commission and Parliament into question . 
The Commission is the executive and Parliament ought to have no desire whatsoever to take on this role , for the sake of its own independence ; but Parliament is a supervisory body , and what better forum could there be in which to expound the reasoning behind one ' s decisions than a democratically - elected Parliament , indeed an ongoing parliamentary discussion ? 
Here too we should continue along the path we have chosen , strengthening and intensifying it . 
There is one thing I would like to make quite clear though . Parliament is a legislative body , but the fact that we have no more than the right of consultation in matters of competition law , of all things , is truly scandalous . 
Therefore , I would urge the Council and the Intergovernmental Conference to introduce the codecision procedure into legislation in this area . 
I expect the Commission to exploit every available opportunity for parliamentary cooperation and to involve Parliament in doubtful cases , even given the Treaty status quo . 
I also expect the Commission to be pro - active in supporting us in our call for codecision in legislative procedures . 
This will be a good test as to whether there is reasonable cooperation between the two institutions . 
With all due respect for the principle of competition , competition is not , however , an end in itself . 
Competition is an instrument and does not always produce ideal solutions . 
At the end of the day , one of the fundamental tenets of economic theory is that the market is failing in many respects and anyone who takes issue with this is nothing more than an ideologue . 
Competition should bring about balance in supply and demand and should provide for the optimum distribution of economic resources and facts . 
But optimum efficiency does not necessarily come about of its own accord . 
Framework conditions are indispensable when it comes to preventing abuses , monopolies law being one example . 
But on the whole , this only serves to prevent abuses ; framework conditions alone cannot achieve socially legitimate goals in isolation . 
Competition yes , restrictions in state aid where necessary and where possible . 
However , since state aid forms the lion ' s share of the competition report 1998 I would still like , regardless of Mr Jonckheer ' s report , to say one more thing about it . It is certainly possible , indeed it must be feasible for state aid to be given to small and medium - sized enterprises involved in research and development for the purpose of educating them in regional and environmental policy . 
Indeed it must be permissible for state aid to be provided for such purposes , provided it does not lead to unacceptable distortion of competition . 
This is precisely the area where it is even more important than it is in monopolies and mergers law for decisions to be comprehensible . 
It is not just that we should pillory state aid ; rather our approach must be one of drawing distinctions and we must assess the different types of state aid in accordance with the extent to which they help to achieve the above - mentioned objectives . 
My last comment was intended not so much for the Commission as for the Members of the Group of the European People ' s Party . 
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , the report which I have the opportunity to propose to you today is an opinion on the Commission ' s Annual Report on the state aid in force within the European Union and for which the Community is authorised under Articles 87 , 88 and 89 of the Treaties . 
The Commission report is essentially a descriptive report detailing the development of state aid in the manufacturing sector and certain other sectors , according to various typologies , such as the method of financing and the objectives pursued . 
Let me refer you to the explanatory statement for the quantitative aspects of the report and simply mention at this point that the annual level of state aid , on average , for the period under review , is in the order of EUR 95 billion , corresponding to a reduction in the order of 13 % in relation to the period 1993 - 1995 , a reduction which is essentially due to a reduction in aid in the Federal Republic of Germany . 
To put it plainly , the level of state aid declared , roughly speaking , is generally stable during the period under discussion and comes to approximately 1 . 2 % of Community GDP or more or less the equivalent , coincidentally , of the Community budget for one year . 
This being the case , there are considerable disparities between states , which may be measured in various ways , such as , for example , as a percentage of added value and per wage earner . 
I think it is also interesting to add state aid and Community aid , which may be assimilated in some way into state aid . 
This clearly shows that it is the four countries which benefit from the Cohesion Fund , among other things , which come at the top of the list . 
This being the case , let me now come to the proposals made in the report . 
We note , first of all , that the committee considers the data , as presented in the Commission ' s annual report , to be in too aggregated a form to enable an in - depth evaluation of state aid policy which is simultaneously legitimate , sensitive to national interests and extensive in terms of compliance with the rules of competition , pursuant to the actual terms of the Treaty . 
The Commission can only collate and analyse the data provided by the Member States . 
It is therefore down to the states and regions to ensure the quality of the data provided , and our committee considers that additional efforts must be made in this respect . 
It is in this spirit that our parliamentary committee for example , has championed the longstanding idea of a public register of state aid , accessible via the Internet . 
Having better , more detailed information available , particularly with regard to the objectives pursued and the results recorded , must make it possible for the European Commission to itself proceed or to commission in a regular manner studies of the social and economic evaluation of national and regional state aid policies . 
And insofar as such studies already exist , to publish more openly its own comments with regard to the objectives of the Treaties , which are not only to ensure the competitivity of the European economy , but also sustainable development and economic and social cohesion . 
By stressing , primarily , the quality of the information provided , our debate in committee , and hence the report which it is my honour to present to you , avoided a simplistic response in the form of an a priori statement that the level of state aid was , in absolute terms , either too high or not high enough . 
Most committee members have sought rather to find a balance between , on the one hand , the need to see that both states and businesses comply with the competition rules and , on the other hand , acknowledgement of the value of such aid with a view to contributing to the objectives of the Treaty , particularly , as I have said already , as regards sustainable development , research and development and economic and social cohesion . 
This being the case , various amendments to the rapporteur ' s initial draft report were adopted in committee , particularly highlighting the need for effective reimbursement of aid found to be illegal as well as the establishment of a league table of results . 
Seven amendments have been retabled for this plenary sitting . 
Most of them are an expression of the political differences among ourselves regarding the appropriateness and effectiveness of state aid , in view of the inadequacies , acknowledged or not , of private investment alone , the market failures or inadequacies of the market . 
There is in particular one amendment , let me point out , concerning the energy sector , which , in my capacity as rapporteur , I see as particularly important . 
I should like to conclude this presentation , Commissioner , by stressing two things : firstly , a concern of the members of the committee and , secondly , a demand of our committee . 
The concern involves the pre - accession process for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe , in terms of competition policy and state aid . 
This is undoubtedly a complex issue , and one where we should like to see the Commission informing us of the latest development in the matter , particularly in terms of the capacity of the economies involved in the accession process to comply with competition rules and , as far as state aid is concerned , the need , in all probability , to have specific rules on state aid used to assist restructuring of their sectors . 
And finally , in conclusion , our demand regarding the future responsibilities of the European Parliament in the matters we are discussing , competition policy and state aid , in the context of the Intergovernmental Conference . 
As you know , Commissioner , our report argues that the codecision procedure should apply in the case of basic legislation on state aid . 
