Finally , I would like to highlight the health aspect . 
Belgian volunteers , too , sacrificed their Christmas holidays to clean the beaches and rescue birds and fish , often with their bare hands . 
I was surprised to read reports in the press that the sludge was carcinogenic . 
We must learn from past experiences . 
Shipping disasters such as that involving the Erika could well strike again off the Dutch , English , Spanish or Belgian coasts . 
The regulations which we are drawing up today in Europe should be regarded as a precedent . 
We should therefore be strict with the polluters and generous to the victims . 
Mr President , echoing the thoughts of a number of Members , I should like to tell you that , two and a half months after the wreck , the situation remains particularly critical and every day the scale of the disaster becomes even more apparent . 
There are two aspects , the first being the environmental angle . 
The wreck still contains 16 000 tonnes of heavy gas oil which is leaking and , in addition to these leaks , unfortunately , last week we observed and counted 35 acts of ecological piracy , 35 degassing operations , disgracefully aggravating this already catastrophic situation . 
Mrs de Palacio expressed her views at length regarding this issue and I feel she set to work without waiting for an element which today is absolutely essential , a draft European maritime law , following a draft directive on the maritime transportation of dangerous goods . 
From this point of view , this fits in with the wish of the French to see their presidency characterised by regulations which work towards increasing safety . 
The secondary impact , however , is proving to be on the economy , the primary impact being environmental and only the second economic , as many Members have stated . 
Shellfish farming , fishing , oyster farming and fish farming are today seriously affected , for the effects of the oil slick have been compounded by the storm damage affecting many areas . 
Unfortunately , these sectors have been devastated : they have first to rebuild and then , perhaps the most difficult thing , to regain consumer confidence . 
Confronted with this situation , the inhabitants of Brittany , the Vendée and Charente , as well as the forestry workers in other regions , await a signal from the European Union . 
We cannot claim that rapprochement with the citizens is the touchstone of this legislative period if , at the same time , we hold our tongues and do not offer practical responses in the face of phenomena of this magnitude . 
I took very careful note of Commissioner Fischler ' s remarks , perhaps the most practical suggestions we have heard to date . 
There have been many declarations of sympathy and solidarity , and many announcements , admittedly , but now it is time for expectations to be met with a tangible display of European solidarity . 
The Erika oil spill is one of a catalogue of disasters that have taken place in recent years in Community waters , including the Braer spill off Shetland and the Sea Empress off Wales . 
These spills , in addition to causing irreparable ecological damage , have devastated local industries . 
In the case of the Erika , the local fishing and aquaculture industries have suffered a bitter blow and it is important not just to look at the harmful effects that are apparent today but also to look ahead at the long - term detrimental effects of oil pollution . 
Effective compensation is essential . 
It is time that shipping safety within the Community was tightened up and that greater controls were introduced , including bringing an end to the use of flags of convenience which is also increasingly resorted to in the fisheries sector . 
The companies responsible , the ship and the cargo owners must pay up for their negligence . 
The current compensation funds are inadequately funded and this was all too apparent in the case of the Braer disaster where the Shetland Islands fishing industry was inadequately compensated for their losses . 
We must learn from past experience and make sure that the industries affected by the Braer spill can be rebuilt . 
Mr President , today , once again , it is necessary to discuss the Erika disaster , two and a half months after it occurred , because its tragic consequences are far from over . 
Now we must continue both to apply pressure , together with citizens ' organisations , to ensure that Total pays the full costs for everything destroyed due to its unbridled pursuit for profits , and also to make a firm commitment to ensuring that this type of disaster never happens again . 
Even though the joint motion for a resolution is an interesting one , it does not tackle the subject of flags of convenience , a problem which must be both condemned and resolved as a matter of urgency if we are to contribute to the principle of preventing maritime disasters . 
It is actually not so much a matter of improving safety checks on these flags of convenience , as stipulated in the resolution , as actually working right now to eliminate their existence . 
This is the only solution to ensure that seafarers ' living and working conditions are satisfactory , that they are covered by effective legislation and social protection , and that fishing operations and the environment are respected . 
Parliament adopts a resolution after every maritime disaster . 
Generally it puts forward positive technical measures , some of which are adopted in directives . 
If they were applied , they would in fact serve to counter the idea of cutting costs to the minimum , a policy which is maintained through flags of convenience . 
Mr President , Commissioner , in the capacity of rapporteur for the directive on port reception facilities , one of whose objectives is the prevention of marine pollution , I would like to make a few observations which occurred to me on matters which , to my mind , were not sufficiently dealt with at the Green Shipping Conference in Hamburg which everyone attended . 
It was stated at this conference that disasters account for 5 % to 10 % of oil pollution . 
This may be very concentrated and create many problems , but it is industry which is responsible for 60 % of pollution . And , by way of an indication , 10 % is caused by natural pollution . 
What I would like to propose within the framework not so much of technical improvements , better inspection or improved legislation ( which , I admit , are all necessary ) but , rather , within the framework of socially responsible management , is a kind of round - table conference comprising those involved in , and affected by , the pollution of the seas with oil . 
I would like to advocate this . 
I want to thank Commissioner Fischler for his answer to the oral question tabled by our committee . 
He has given us some important information . The Commissioners who appear before this House armed with specific and important information are always to be thanked . 
With regard to the specific case of the Erika , measures are being taken and action is being coordinated with the French authorities . 
Our main concern has been that we do not end up discussing this type of event again . 
Preventative measures are the answer to the question of what can we do . It has been said that the Commission will meet to adopt a range of technical and legal measures . 
This is the right way to go . 
These measures are very welcome and the Committee on Fisheries will monitor these very closely so that we do not have to spend more time in this House regretting such disasters . 
I have received 5 motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 42 ( 2 ) . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place at 11 a . m . 
EC - Israel trade agreement
The next item is the oral question ( B5 - 0012 / 2000 ) by Mrs Morgantini and others , to the Commission , on the irregular application of the EC - Israel trade agreement . 
What we are about to discuss is really very simple : the respect , application and monitoring of the agreements subscribed to by the European Union , and compliance with the Treaties and international standards to which it adheres . 
It is very simple , but in this world the simplest things are very often the hardest things to achieve . 
The goal of my colleagues who joined me in tabling this question to the Commission is this : the correct application of the EC - Israel trade agreement , which - we not only have reason to believe but , together with several Member States , have concrete proof - is being blatantly violated by Israel . 
At the same time , we also have reason to believe that the Commission is failing to attend to one of its primary functions : guardianship of the Community Treaties . 
I refer to Article 38 of the territorial requirement which restricts the scope to the territory of the State of Israel and thus does not grant special customs arrangements for products coming from the territories which were occupied by Israeli armed forces in June 1967 and upon which , in breach of all the international rules , from the fourth Geneva Convention onwards , the different Israeli governments have built settlements , confiscating Palestinian land and water and installing their own people . 
This is not the first time that the Commission and Parliament have tackled this issue : I will only cite here the Commission ' s report to the Council and Parliament , published in May 1998 , which did not accept Israel ' s refusal to apply the protocol of the rules of origin as laid down in Article 38 . 
In spite of this , the Commission was not able to induce Israel to respect these agreements , and only gave vague responses to parliamentary questions , maintaining that it was difficult to obtain reliable proof of the provenance of products , although it has consistently , and quite rightly , made the legal obligations imposed by the agreement clear to Israel . 
In order to make it easier for the Commission and the Member States to get hold of reliable evidence , an Israeli peace movement published a list of companies established in the settlements , and a Palestinian NGO prepared and presented the customs services of the various Member States with unequivocal proof attesting to the State of origin of a range of products coming from the occupied territories and traded on domestic Community markets . 
I will mention but a few , which are produced in the Golan Heights and the occupied territories : wine and other products . 
This is a time of peace in Palestine and Israel : right now the credibility and observance of the legal effect of treaties and agreements is important if the European Union and Parliament want to play an active political role . 
Israel can be certain that Europe is in favour of its security and stability , but it cannot ask us to be party to such grave violations . 
The Palestinians know that the European Union is in favour of the consolidation of their State and their rights , but they have no proof of this . 
Peace cannot be founded on the violation of rights - Israelis such as the soldier Igal Moshe , who refused to go to the Lebanon four days ago and who is now in prison , are proof of this ; Palestinians who still want peace , despite the fact that their houses have been levelled and that , 50 years on , they are still refugees , are proof of this ; above all , respect for ourselves and for the democratic principles which we have laid down for ourselves demand it . 
Allow me to say , however , on a more practical level , that , for the same Member States and the Union , this also concerns the loss of economic resources taken from European citizens in violation of human and economic rights . 
