I shall try to provide you with the additional information you are now seeking on this matter . 
First of all , with regard to the lack of clarity in the agreement , I can confirm that the provisional agreement between the EC and Israel on trade and related matters specifies that it applies to the territory of the Member States of the European Community and , I quote ,  " the territory of Israel "  . 
The EC consequently takes the view that there is absolutely no lack of clarity about the specifications given in his written answer by Commissioner Patten when he said , and I quote in the original English : 
 " . . . as already explained in the communication , Israeli settlements or occupied territories cannot be considered by the Community as part of Israeli territory for implementation of the EC - Israel agreement . 
This issue is highly sensitive , in as far as it relates to the broader question of borders , to Israelis and Palestinians alike " . 
We have repeatedly stated this position to the Israeli authorities at every official meeting between the Commission and the relevant Israeli minister , the most recent of which was held on 21 January . 
On that occasion , the Prime Minister , Shimon Peres , attended a meeting with Romano Prodi , the President of the Commission , and with Commissioner Patten . 
It was furthermore widely known , as you have just said , Mrs Morgantini , that Israel ' s interpretation of the territory to which the agreement applies does not match our own . 
The Commission believes , however , that our interpretation is completely unambiguous . 
Hence , the relevance of your second question on the effectiveness of the verification system . 
The procedure for verifying the origin of products enables us to determine if a product may be benefiting from the right to preferential treatment , even if there is no cooperation on the part of the third country involved in determining the product ' s origin . 
In our written answer to you , the Commission mentioned simplifying the procedure for determining the origins of a product . 
Of course , this does not mean that this alone will solve the problem or , in other words , that simplifying this procedure would automatically lead to a clearer indication of the product ' s origin . 
As long as the customs services of the various Member States identify consignments which may not have originated in Israel , and as long as this is done by the national customs authorities , the Commission , for its part , will - to the extent that it is empowered to do so - maintain its dialogue with the Israeli authorities . In so doing , it will seek to ensure that the protocol on the rules of origin is properly applied in accordance with the only interpretation which the Commission can accept . 
In the event that these initiatives , which are currently under way , do not enable the origin of a product to be determined , the Commission may have to look at the possibility of calling a meeting of the Customs Cooperation Committee , in which the differences of opinion on verification procedures in this kind of agreement could be resolved . 
With regard to the new measures , the Commission has , at official meetings with the Israeli authorities , discussed in great detail the issue of the application of the agreement , for which there are clearly defined procedures . 
In January of this year , the Israeli authorities suggested setting up a tripartite working group comprising representatives of the Palestinian authorities , of the Israeli Government and of the Commission . 
The aim of this working group would be to find mutually acceptable solutions for the transition period , without prejudice to the final outcome of the discussions currently taking place . Nor would they contravene the agreements which will remain in force until a final agreement is reached . 
President Arafat accepted this proposal at a meeting on 24 January with Commissioner Patten . The Commission is therefore seeking to confirm to both the Israeli Government and the Palestinian authorities that we are willing to accept this proposal , which we feel will allay the concerns that you have raised here , Mrs Morgantini . 
Mr President , the difficulties faced by the peace process in the Middle East are well known . 
As for the political obstacles to be tackled , these are all too apparent . 
The weight of the political problem is in fact so great that it could discourage us when considering an obstacle such as the incorrect application of this trade agreement , which in principle is only a legal problem . 
Some might therefore consider it reasonable to argue that , since the irregular exports to Europe from the Israeli settlements in the occupied territories are not regarded as a priority political problem , these should be halted until a final peace agreement is achieved . 
However , I believe that the repeated failure to comply with previously concluded legal agreements , combined with the accumulated frustration at non - compliances in other areas , could become a political issue which might prejudice the peace process itself . 
Specifically and regrettably , in a conflict like the Israeli or Palestinian conflict , everything ends up being politicised if appropriate measures are not taken in time to prevent this happening . 
In this respect , the answer given by Mr Prodi , at the beginning of his trip to the Middle East just two days ago , to a journalist ' s question on this issue , is nonsense . 
He said that this issue was not on the agenda as this only concerned political issues . 
Frankly , I believe that the Commission must act if it is proven that preferential access to Community markets is being gained by products originating from these settlements . 
As the Commission itself states and international law determines , these settlements are not part of the territory of the State of Israel . The fact that Europe is basing its actions on international law in its relations with the parties to the peace process can only benefit Israel . 
Finally , I want to ask the Commission , which I am sure intends to apply the current agreement , if it has planned any special additional effort or mechanism to make this application more effective in this particular case . 
Mr President , Commissioner , since the signing of the Oslo Agreements in 1995 , Israeli - Palestinian relations have entered a new phase , which should lead to a fair and lasting peace between partners which respect each other . 
The Union has played an invaluable part in this process , in its capacity as the primary source of economic aid to the region . 
The main reason for the problems of implementing trade agreements between the European Union and Israel , as has already been said , is the intractable problem of frontiers . 
The Israeli interpretation is not the same as the Union ' s , as the Commissioner mentioned . 
At all events , it is a process currently under negotiation , a difficult one , but one that we all wish to see succeed . 
This is essentially a political process and the Union would be ill advised to look for a merely technical solution which would only be temporary , given the lack of legal frontiers between the two States . 
The settlement process must proceed by the only possible avenue , i . e . that of dialogue . 
A tripartite working group , comprising Palestinian and Israeli specialists as well as those of the Commission , should thus be set up . 
In this context , we may hope that the parties involved will manage to settle their differences and establish a creative solution for this transitional period . 
As was the case in Europe fifty years ago , the social and economic development of the Middle East is an essential condition for peace . 
We therefore have some expertise to bring to bear on the subject and we are particularly well placed to gauge the extent of what has already been achieved . 
Hopefully the Israelis and Palestinians will demonstrate the same optimistic faith in goodwill . 
Mr President , Commissioner , the peace process in the Middle East is an extremely delicate matter . 
It will only be possible for the exact borders of the state of Israel , the only democracy in that region , to be universally recognised once these negotiations have proved to be a success . 
The trade agreement between the European Union and Israel , which equally fails to define the territory of the state of Israel , should be implemented against this background . 
In addition , there is a significant connection between the economic activities within Israel and those on Palestinian territory . 
With this in mind , the Paris Protocol to the Oslo agreements also provides for a customs " envelope " comprising the state of Israel and the Palestinian Authority . 
Furthermore , the Commission and said parties have agreed to set up a joint working party to discuss issues concerning products ' countries of origin . 
The Palestinian economy in particular is said to suffer under unilateral EU measures . 
Potential investors in this area have already indicated that they would withdraw if joint ventures were no longer given preference . 
Mr President , in general terms this House shares the concern expressed in Mrs Morgantini ' s question . 
Commissioner Vitorino has clarified the Commission ' s position and , in my opinion , has responded adequately to the concerns raised here . However , I feel that we should not leave the matter there . 
Starting from this previous statement , the lines of agreement could be extended on the basis of the privileged information which Mrs Morgantini and myself were able to obtain when we accompanied the President of this House on a tour of the area . 
Firstly , despite the current difficulties which we saw for ourselves in situ , we must repeat our support for the direct dialogue between the Israeli Government and the Palestinian Authority which is producing a fair , stable and definitive peace agreement . 
Secondly , it is in the interests of both parties to ensure the economic development of the region and to take decisive action to reduce the serious imbalances in the distribution of wealth in the area . 
Thirdly and finally , perhaps the Commission could bear in mind the usefulness of participating in the work of a tripartite working group , naturally involving the European Union , to guarantee compliance with trade agreements and to ensure progress in the assistance offered by the European Union to all the parties concerned . 
I have to say that I am satisfied with Commissioner Vitorino ' s response : I feel that , on the whole , his speech did respond to the points raised in the question . 
I agree that we must emphasise the importance , for the European Union and therefore , from an executive point of view , for the Commission , of encouraging tripartite activities , particularly as regards levels of economic / financial and scientific cooperation . In this way , our financial involvement could be converted rather more often into a more significant political presence in the Middle East . 
This , in my opinion , is the lesson to be learned from such a long - drawn - out affair . 
With regard to the subject under discussion , I have just heard Mr Galeote and Mr Menéndez del Valle refer , respectively , to the visit of our President and that of President Prodi to Israel and other countries in the Middle East . 
I feel that the two Presidents were right not to include this point in their agendas : there is a time and place for everything and , of course , the priorities are different at different levels . 
I feel that it was right for the two highest representatives of Parliament and the Commission to tackle the most sensitive issues of the peace process which , as we are aware , is still running into difficulties . 
We need to lend this peace process our full support , and our concern over the issues described in the question put by Mrs Morgantini is not preconceived , nor is it indicative of a negative attitude towards any of the parties concerned . We are being cruel to be kind . 
We are being strict with our friend , the Israeli Government , to prevent repetition of these illegal occurrences and irregularities , as they are damaging to everyone involved . Seen in this perspective , this initiative should also be viewed as positive , and as an initiative intended to further the Middle East peace process . 
Mr President , Commissioner , it is true that the present trade agreement between Israel and the EC is ambiguous . 
It is also very difficult to establish the origin of the products in question . 
I can therefore only concur that it is desirable for some light to be shed on the matter soon . 
There are , nonetheless , a number of other important factors which we need to take into consideration . 
Indeed , we are all agreed that the recent revival of the peace negotiations must be encouraged and not hampered . 
Israel and the Palestinians are currently involved in intense negotiations concerning their future borders . 
Any attempt by anyone , including by any third party , to define - let alone impose - the territorial area to be adopted for trading purposes is therefore premature . 
In my opinion , it seems preferable to await the findings of the tripartite working group , to be convened on the initiative of Israel , the European Commission and also the Palestinians for the purpose of examining the origin rules . 
I am pleased that the Commissioner shares this view . 
Hopefully , this working party will find a temporary solution to the problem within the existing legal framework without jeopardising the peace process . 
For this peace process deserves absolute priority , and we in the European Community and in Europe should not put any obstacle whatsoever in the way of this process . 
There seems to be remarkable consensus in the House today but I would like to make a few points . 
Here in the Parliament trade in the Middle East has always been a political flashpoint . 
We are major donors but we have , unfortunately been marginalised in terms of policy and political influence for too long in the Middle East and we can contribute positively , as many speakers have said today , just as we did in the case of Northern Ireland . 
We are major consumers of goods from both Israel and the occupied territories , indeed trade is probably our main political strength in the area and ensuring the promotion of the rule of law is our best political asset as we seek to contribute to the peace settlement . 
Borders are being shut down , sometimes arbitrarily , and sometimes following a terrorist attack . 
On one of my many visits to the area , I have seen flowers and strawberries rotting , lying in the streets of Gaza and being eaten by the donkeys while their Palestinian producers look on helplessly in despair . 
But it is not just an issue of closed borders . 
Goods do flow freely from these territories , goods produced in Israeli settlements in the occupied territories . 
We have an international agreement and it is being transgressed . 
It is our responsibility to ensure that the terms of the agreement are respected and upheld by all . 
Under the circumstances , when Israel does not clearly discharge its duty to apply the origin rules and the territorial clause of the agreement as it should , the Commission is encouraging Member States to resort to the import verification procedures which can be dilatory and evasive . 
Israeli customs can be given a very long time , up to ten months , to reply to any queries and the import verification procedure can be totally unproductive . 
We should be requiring deposits on all goods imported from Israel until we are able to ensure that Israel will stop abusing the agreement . 
I have a couple of questions , Commissioner . 
Has the Commission received from any Member States ' customs services documents certified by Israeli customs that represent specific settlement locations in the occupied territories falling within the scope of the agreement ? 
Has it directly asked the Israeli officials responsible whether its customs service applies the territorial clause so as to exclude the occupied territories from the agreement and has it determined that Israel correctly understands and interprets that territorial clause ? 
And is the Commission aware whether they apply that territorial clause correctly or not ? 
Finally , the Commission has already stated that action to uphold international agreements with the EU , and I am quoting ,  " does not represent a sanction against Israel but demands correct implementation of existing agreements freely entered into by the parties "  . 
In short , Commissioner , this is not an issue which should be treated as a matter for peace - process - related political debate . 
It is , in fact , an international agreement and a trade agreement . 
Could I just finally express my great hopes for the peace process in that area - a part of the world that so desperately needs it - so that it can re - group and re - form and help its millions of under - privileged and poverty - stricken citizens . 
Mr President , it is universally recognised that rules must be observed . It is also universally recognised that our partners must also be made to observe the same rules . 
Everyone understands that there is concern about this today , but I would not like our demand to be regarded as selectively applicable . 
Nor would I like our oral question to be perceived as an indictment . 
Our demand is not selectively applicable and the Commission should therefore regard this as a suggestion to look into the use of Community funds in regions around Israel . 
And because the Commission ' s investigation is not , and must not be perceived as , an indictment , I should like to mention two points which are central to the balance of our approach . 
Firstly , anyone familiar with the region knows that the future of the Palestinian economy is intimately linked to the economic cooperation agreement with Israel . 
The Oslo protocol envisages an integrated customs authority to encompass both Israel and the Palestinian Authority . 
Anything liable to separate the two economies would have a serious effect on cooperation between Israel and Palestine , including joint ventures , Palestinian sub - contractors and exporters . 
Secondly , nowhere in the agreements between Israel and the European Union are the frontiers of the State of Israel defined . 
The negotiations in progress between Israel and the Palestinian Authority are specifically concerned with defining these frontiers . 
Any attempt on the part of the European Union to impose its own idea of the territorial limits of the State of Israel would be , at the very least , lacking in tact and detrimental to these talks and to the idea of the role which we feel Europe should have in this region . 
I support the cautious approach which the Commissioner has taken and is taking in this matter , firstly because this is not a simple issue . 
It is complicated ; it is always difficult to determine the origin of any goods and where they come from . 
No less so in the Middle East because there you have a situation where there are many joint ventures between Israel and Palestinians , where produce in some cases is partly manufactured in the Palestinian area and in the State of Israel and these developments are good things , they augur well for the future because if trade is being done in this way in the Middle East , then that will be the bedrock of any peace agreement . 
Therefore , because it is not an easy and simple issue , we have to be cautious and we have to be careful . 
The second reason why the Commission is right to proceed in this way is that if the European Union wishes to play a part in the area in securing peace then it must be seen to be fair and evenhanded . 
It would not be fair and evenhanded to rush into a decision without letting the talks and the groups that it is meeting determine what the situation is , both in terms of the area of the State of Israel relating to the trade agreement and , as I say , in relation to the goods and where they come from at the same time . 
There is I think one final reason why the Commission should be supported . 
We are at a delicate stage in relation to the peace agreement . 
You have a government in Israel which wants peace and wants to secure peace and if you proceed in a rash and rapid way then you could jeopardise the success of that peace agreement . 
You cannot cherrypick in negotiations , this is part of an overall settlement of some extremely complicated issues and I think the Commission is absolutely right to let these things flow through carefully in the hope that by doing so we can secure what all of us want and that is a secure and just and durable peace in the Middle East . 
Mr President , it is , of course , unacceptable for breaches of our trade agreement with Israel to be concealed or tolerated . 
By giving de facto preferential treatment to products from the occupied settlements under the trade agreement with Israel , the EU is contravening two important principles of international law . It is contravening both the fourth Geneva Convention from 1949 and international norms in force concerning the unilateral incorporation of occupied territories . 
Because the world ' s and the EU ' s respect for these two international principles forms the basis for the peace process which has been instituted , violations of these principles undermine the very basis of the peace process . 
The EU must now choose between basing its relations with Israel and Palestine on the standards of international law , thereby strengthening the basis of the peace process , and showing disdain for international law . 
The choice ought to be simple . 
International law prescribes that trade agreements should be established with countries and regions which we recognise and not with disputed territories . 
Customs duties must be claimed back , and the EU ' s Member States and Israel must respect the trade agreement ' s rules concerning strict monitoring of the way in which products are labelled to show their country of origin . 
The Commission must guarantee that these things will be done . 
Commissioner Vitorino ' s contribution offered some hope that they would be . 
The peace process in the Middle East must be given a chance . It can only be founded upon international law . 
It is the EU ' s responsibility to contribute to this . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I would first like to thank all of you who have taken part in this debate for the excellent , valuable contributions you have made , as we are addressing an issue which is undoubtedly very sensitive politically speaking . 
If the Commission is able to draw any conclusions from this debate , I would say that it seems to us that in broad terms Parliament is looking favourably on the strategy that the Commission has followed to address this issue . It is true that this strategy may be cautious , but it is also quite unambiguous . 
The Commission is aware of how politically sensitive this subject is and does not doubt for a minute that progress towards finding real solutions for the proper application of this trade agreement is closely linked to the development of the Middle East peace process . The Commission is also aware that the political importance attributed to the peace process by the European Union is reflected in Parliament and in the Commission , as has been said here by various Members and is a result of the recent visit to the region by President Nicole Fontaine as well as President Romano Prodi ' s very recent visit last week . 
We are therefore fully aware of the fact that we are at a very delicate stage in the peace process , which must not be endangered by positions that would result from blindly applying legal rules , because applying the law requires that we should endeavour to find a solution on which all parties can agree . 
The truth of the situation is that the approach adopted by the Commission on this subject is to seek to obtain the support and agreement of all parties involved in the process . 
In response to various Members ' questions , I therefore think that the proposal put forward by the Israeli authorities , which is to set up a tripartite working group to consider the implications of this transition period in applying the trade agreement , which has already been accepted by the Palestinian authorities , deserves not only our acceptance , but also a statement of our confidence that through this kind of dialogue , through this kind of mutual vigilance over the correct application of the trade agreement , we will be able to achieve positive results in the interests of the population of the region . 
And what the population of the region is interested in , above all , is peace , and their own economic prosperity . 
Lastly , I would like to say that we feel this approach remains true to the principles and the values of the agreement , which we feel is sufficiently clear in legal terms . 
We are also convinced that we are taking positive steps to create an atmosphere of mutual trust which is always the best basis on which to build peace , because the Middle East has no alternative but to achieve peaceful coexistence between all of the peoples living there . 
Commissioner , I recognise the delicacy of the issue at the moment but I did ask you a couple of specific questions . 
I recognise that you are probably not in a position to answer them this morning , but I hope very much that you will send me answers when you have them , as soon as possible please , relating to the actual , technical implementation of the agreements in relation to goods . 
Thank you very much , Mrs Banotti . 
The debate is closed . 
 ( The sitting was suspended at 10 . 40 a . m . for the vote and resumed at 11 a . m . ) 
VOTE
Mr President , in my view , the position is very clear following the debate we had yesterday with Commissioner Diamantopoulou and the President - in - Office of the Council , and Parliament should vote on the original text . 
Hence we withdraw our signature to Amendment No 4 . 
Thank you very much . 
 ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
Report ( A5 - 0041 / 2000 ) by Mr Katiforis , on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , on the Commission document on the EU economy : 1999 review ( C5 - 0081 / 2000 - 2000 / 2046 ( COS ) ) 
Paragraph 3 : 
Mr President , I think there is a mistranslation in the Swedish text . 
It would have been a turn - up for the books if the European Left had expressed its concern about a possible increase in taxes on income from capital . 
In fact , we voted as we wished to do , but there was a mistranslation in the Swedish text , and I wish this to be noted . 
We are assured that all language versions correspond to the original version . 
 ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
Report ( A5 - 0016 / 2000 ) by Mr Varela Suanzes - Carpegna , on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries , on the second report from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on the implementation of the " statement of conclusions from the intermediate ministerial meeting on the integration of fisheries and environmental issues , 13 - 14 March 1997 in Bergen "  ( COM ( 1999 ) 270 - C5 - 0156 / 1999 - 1999 / 2150 ( COS ) ) 
 ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
Report ( A5 - 0017 / 2000 ) by Mr Katiforis , on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries , on the Communication from the Commission to the Council and European Parliament : Fisheries management and nature conservation in the marine environment ( COM ( 1999 ) 363 - C5 - 0176 / 1999 ) 
 ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
Joint motion for a resolution ( B5 - 0181 / 2000 ) on the shipwreck of the . 
 ( Parliament adopted the joint resolution ) 
President . 
That concludes the vote . 
 - Attwooll report ( A5 - 0038 / 2000 ) 
We know that the Commission is going to reform the common fisheries policy shortly . 
This proposal for a Council Regulation is the first in a series which will make it possible to draw up this reform . 
The collection and management of the fisheries data is needed to conduct the common fisheries policy . 
This data must be reliable , drawn up independently and accepted by all the operators in the industry , politicians and those individuals responsible for the application of this CFP . 
The text of the proposal for a Regulation has been amended quite extensively in the Committee on Fisheries . 
All the members of our Group voted in favour of these amendments , both in committee and in Parliament . 
Amendment No 1 serves to clarify the text considerably . 
Specifically , the data collected must not be intended for purely scientific use . 
Scientists must process this data and pass it on to the relevant political decision - making authorities . 
It is , however , crucial for the data collection method to be carried out in a scientifically justified manner . 
Amendment No 2 amends the initial Commission proposal . 
What the Commission proposal suggests is drawing up extremely detailed studies of individual vessels and individual businesses . 
In addition to the extremely high cost of such a proposal , the cumbersome nature of its management may cause some administrations to use its complexities as a pretext not to provide the information in due time and may give rise to a certain feeling of suspicion among the people working in the sector if they have onerous additional bureaucratic constraints foisted upon them in this way . 
Regarding the second part of this amendment , it is important that job losses in the industry are counted and identified much more clearly . 
Let us not forget that in the administration of a common fisheries policy the statistical analysis used must include the social aspect . 
Amendment No 3 makes it possible to add an important aspect : the collection of environmental data . 
The value of this can be gauged from the particularly serious effects caused by failing to take data of this type into account , for example , in the case of the decision on the prohibition of drift gillnets , which is totally unjustifiable from the environmental standpoint , since they are one of the most selective types of fishing gear that exist . 
If this environmental dimension were not incorporated into the management of data , then the Commission would be able unilaterally , just as it pleases , to prohibit the use of any particular type of fishing gear . 
Amendment No 4 specifies the obligation upon scientists to process all the data and pass it on to the relevant authorities , including national and regional authorities , in order to contribute to the decision - making process . 
Amendment No 5 serves to mitigate the Commission proposal . 
Effectively , the information requested from the authorities must be reasonable in order to allow an operational overview of fishing activities without compromising essential rights to confidentiality , for example , in fiscal matters , where the Community has no jurisdiction . 
Amendment No 6 is intended to tighten up the Commission ' s participation in the inspection procedure . 
It is essential that all the data is sent on an annual basis and that the Commission should produce regular reports of the aggregated results . 
Finally , Amendment No 7 requires the Commission to produce a report by the end of the year 2001 . 
In fact , because the reform of the common fisheries policy is scheduled for 2002 , it is essential that all the political participants should be given the opportunity to familiarise themselves with the information which will form the basis of the Commission proposal . 
Hudghton report ( A5 - 0036 / 2000 ) 
 -  ( FR ) The amendment to the directive as presented by the Commission is an important one since it deals with a specific disease , i . e . infectious salmon anaemia , a contagious viral disease . 
It is a water - borne virus and is transmitted via organic substances such as blood , faecal matter , mucus , etc . 
There is no scientific proof of the possibility of vertical transmission of the disease through roe . 
It is , however , recognised that other species such as trout , eels or herring , may be carriers of the virus without being affected by it . 
The disease was detected in Norway in 1984 and also in Canada ( 1996 ) . 
The virus does not survive at a temperature of more than 26º C , and is therefore not dangerous to humans . 
The disease chiefly affects the Scottish salmon industry . It was detected in this region in May 1998 . 
Today , 240 salmon farms are affected by ISA . 
It is therefore essential to contain this disease and prevent it spreading to all the aquacultural establishments in the various Member Sates of the European Union . 
The Council proposal envisages setting up a system for the gradual elimination of fish affected by the disease and also a vaccination plan . 
We can only declare ourselves in favour of the proposed plan for the gradual elimination of affected fish . 
The fish farms concerned must be assisted in ' cleaning up ' the infected site and preventing the disease from spreading through the commercial transport of live fish . 
As regards vaccination , we should remember that the initial directive prohibited the use of vaccines against ISA . 
The Commission ' s new proposal would authorise the use of vaccines , but it is important to point out that so far , no vaccine has actually been found . 
The usefulness of this proposal is limited , to say the least , certainly in the short term . 
Canada does have a vaccine with a 76 % success rate . Since the Canadian strain differs from the European strain , this vaccine cannot be used in its present state , but may be used as the starting point for the development of a vaccine against the European strain . 
It is therefore crucial for the Commission to earmark sufficient funding to support the development of an effective vaccine against the European strain of ISA . 
Resolution on women in decision making ( B5 - 0180 / 2000 ) 
My Group abstained in the resolution on women in decision making , much to our regret . 
But even greater is our regret that we still need such resolutions . 
In 1994 , the Green Group was the first group in this Parliament to have a majority of women in it , the Greens were the first group to have a woman secretary - general in Dominique Voinet , now the French Environment Minister , and the German Greens were the first political party to operate gender parity in order to redress the overall under - representation of women in political institutions . 
This lead has since been followed by a number of parties and it cannot be said that the electorate have risen in protest to condemn such parties for their actions . 
Nor have the electorate felt themselves manipulated by such quotas . 
The resolution makes clear there is a need for a proportional system that gives form to women ' s representation and that all political parties must take action . 
We look forward to that . 
We have sympathy with those who argue that people should be selected on their merits ; they should be . 
Our culture should allow for a balance between the sexes and people should be able to develop their talents wherever they lie , but our culture and values at the moment do not reflect that belief . 
Prejudice and stereotyping are widespread and is it any wonder that people who come from minority groups whether black , gay , physically handicapped or whatever face discrimination and unfair treatment when a majority group , women , also face such discrimination . 
That is why our Group supports positive action and only when women are fairly represented in positions of decision making will men also be fairly represented . 
We might also then develop a culture where your paid and unpaid work , your pay packet , your parental leave and your pension are not determined by your sex . 
As International Women ' s Day rapidly approaches , I would like to reiterate my support for the action undertaken within the Institutions and the Member States with a view to promoting women ' s access to positions of responsibility , particularly in politics . 
That is why I shall most decidedly be voting in favour of the text of this resolution which urges us to take more proactive measures to combat the residual discrimination preventing women occupying their rightful place in our society ! 
Since 1995 , promoting women in the decision - making process has been one of the priority areas of the European Union action programme for equal opportunities , and is included among the commitments reiterated both by the Union institutions and by the Member States when they discuss equality between men and women . 
Nonetheless , even though progress has been made in recent years thanks to strategies such as mainstreaming and complementary schemes such as positive action , they are still too few in number to be satisfactory . 
Under - representation of women in politics , for example , continues to be the norm . 
The importance of enabling greater numbers of women to become involved in politics is , however , recognised . Only women are in a position to come up with policies likely to change structures which have been developed by men for men . 
For , whether in politics or in the labour market , structural discrimination is the main problem facing women . 
It is thus up to the European political parties to make themselves more accessible to women . 
Moreover , Article 191 of the Treaty ( ex Article 138a ) stresses , political parties are , I quote ,  " important as a factor for integration within the Union "  . This article goes on to state that " they contribute to forming a European awareness and to expressing the political will of the citizens of the Union "  . 
A condition of this type may have no legal value , but it is nonetheless of great symbolic value . 
It gives political parties an important role in building a democratic Europe . 
This may , for example , involve implementing positive action and promoting parity within our political parties . 
In the 1999 European elections some parties did put forward lists with men and women equally represented . 
This is an example of good practice which should be applied more widely . 
I do not know if there is some cause - and - effect at work here , but the fact is that the proportion of female Members in the European Parliament went from 25 . 7 % in 1994 to 29 . 9 % in 1999 . 
Moreover , this Parliament has had a woman president since the 1999 elections . 
I shall conclude by repeating the conclusions of the conference organised by the Commission in April 1999 entitled " Women and men in power "  . Equality between men and women is not a problem that affects women alone , but one that affects our entire society ! 
 - Some progress has been made recently in increasing the number of women present in decision - making bodies around the Union . 
In our own Institution , 30 % of elected representatives are now women , including the President of the European Parliament itself . 
Finland too has just elected a female President . 
On average , one quarter of Member State governments are composed of women and a little over one fifth of their parliaments . 
This is still far from satisfactory , especially given that the figures vary enormously between Member States where the Nordic countries experience a much higher female representation in positions of responsibility and decision making . 
This situation has more to do with attitude and respect for the quality and abilities of women ' s contributions to society than fixed quotas . 
My Group does not favour the use of quotas in general since , in the long run , they can be counterproductive and even undermine the cause they aim to support . 
Nevertheless , we recognise that the experience in all Member Sates is not the same and some recourse to such measures may be justified , as a temporary remedy , to rebalance female representation where women are grossly under - represented . 
We were able to support the resolution on women in decision making , adopted with a view to commemorating International Women ' s Day on 8 March , which has incorporated ten Liberal Group amendments and softened the reference to quotas in line with the approach outlined above . 
 -  ( FR ) Women suffer increasingly from inequality since they are the victims of the sexist discrimination which can take an overt form ( violence , rape , sexual harassment , domestic violence , etc . ) but also a more insidious one . 
This oppression is based upon a sexual and social division of labour which values men ' s work more than women ' s . 
Wages are not equal , women ' s work is still perceived as ' stop - gap ' work and , more generally , female employees do not have access to the same positions of responsibility as men . 
What is more , women bear the main responsibility for family matters . 
Women must be entitled to full time employment on an equal footing with men . 
Mandatory legislation must be adopted in order to encourage equality in the workplace . States must develop a public service offering childcare for working mothers . 
Finally , in order to enable everyone , men and women , to become involved in public life , working hours must be drastically reduced . 
We need real equality between men and women in political , economic and social life . 
We are opposed to the idea that the biological differences between men and women should give rise to two different world views and two different value systems . 
Women have the right to be involved in the decision - making process as ' individuals ' and not as token females . 
 - I , together with my colleagues in the British Conservative delegation , am totally committed to the need to have more women playing a full and active part in public life . 
We share in all expressions of regret that there remains inequality and gender discrimination and especially under - representation of women in politics . 
However , we are not convinced that one form of discrimination should be countered with another form of discrimination , namely the introduction of quotas to guarantee women elected places . 
I feel this especially keenly as only on Tuesday evening of this week my 27 - year - old daughter , Caroline , was selected as the prospective Conservative candidate for the Southampton Itchen constituency in the United Kingdom . 
She achieved this position totally on her own merit and in open competition against all - comers . 
We should not adopt a position that in any way detracts from the position of the increasing number of women who are demonstrating that without fear or favour they can earn their place in public life . 
For this reason members of my delegation have supported much of the resolution but we registered our opposition to those calls for positive discrimination in favour of women , which we think is the wrong way to make progress , is itself demeaning to women and distorts the democratic process and we have therefore abstained in the final vote . 
Katiforis report ( A5 - 0041 / 2000 ) 
Mr President , I voted for the Katiforis report on the European Union economy in 1999 to toe the group line , and also because it reveals an extremely serious deficiency which I hope it will contribute to eliminating during the next few years . 
However , the report does not fully explain , or rather it does not explain at all , that the economies of the States of the Union also and , above all , depend on the way in which pension contributions paid by workers are used . 
The report does not mention the fact - although this will have to be specified in the future - that over the last forty years , the governments of all the Member States have squandered and dissipated the capital entrusted to them by workers for their pensions . 
And so we now have no resources left to pay pensions . 
We need a completely different system . 
These leaders must resign . They do not deserve the loyalty of the elderly of today , nor the young people of today , nor the elderly of 2100 , 2200 and so forth . 
 . 
 ( PT ) We regret the fact that the first draft report presented by the rapporteur was rejected in committee , as it had some positive aspects to it , specifically its references to the need to increase public investment and investment in job creation in order to achieve 75 % employment . 
We have therefore voted against the report in its present form , as all the amendments we tabled were rejected . I would like to highlight the following : 
the importance of public investment for sustained economic growth based on economic recovery , by stimulating internal demand and concentrating public investment in areas which would have a positive effect on the economy in general , such as building and maintaining infrastructures , urban renewal , vocational training , education and health ; 
promotion of demand within the Community , through greater public investment and salary increases relating to increased productivity , as a means of achieving greater economic growth , which is essential if we are to achieve our objective of full employment ; 
the creation of support mechanisms for SME associations as a way of improving the competitiveness of SMEs and their level of organisation , as they can provide support services to association members , such as centralised credit , information and legal support services . 
 -  ( FR ) Our position is determined by the nature of our project for Europe . 
We are in favour of a Europe which gives absolute priority to satisfying the needs of all men and women , particularly the unemployed , in such a way that they enjoy a decent existence ; the reduction of working hours combined with mandatory recruitment , without flexibility ; wage increases in line with productivity ; fiscal reform harmonising upwards the taxation of unearned income ; a Tobin tax to discourage financial speculation and , finally , the implementation of a planned energy saving programme . 
Such a policy should bring the overcautious monetarism of the ECB into perspective and should break with the neo - liberal principles of privatisation and undermining social protection . 
The resolution turns its back on such an approach . Quite the contrary , it awards full marks to the policy of stabilisation which has created only unemployment and poverty and which , through its obsession with monetarism , is in danger of stifling rather than supporting the current upturn in the economy . 
The free - marketeering Right ' s rejection of the proposed amendments leads us , therefore , to vote against the resolution . 
 -  ( SV ) We have chosen to abstain in the vote on Amendment 4 to the Katiforis report on the EU Economy ( 1999 ) . 
Our basic attitude is that competition between different national tax systems is not always a bad thing and that the Member States should , as far as possible , retain their right of decision making in this area . 
At national level , we are exceptionally keen that taxes on business and labour should be reduced towards the levels which prevail in our competitors ' countries , but an issue such as that should be decided by the Swedish Parliament and not by the European Parliament . 
Through a situation in which different countries seek different solutions concerning tax and welfare policy , the opportunity is provided to adapt policy to the characteristic features of the individual nations and to test out different forms of social security systems . 
Tax harmonisation at European level should only take place in exceptional cases , for example in the cases of certain environmental taxes and taxes on capital . 
Even if we agree that a certain degree of tax harmonisation is necessary if the internal market is to function properly , Amendment No 4 is altogether too far - reaching and undifferentiated when it comes to this issue . 
Joint resolution on the shipwreck of the ( RC B5 - 0181 / 2000 ) 
Mr President , we voted in favour of the resolution on the wreck of the Erika out of solidarity with the victims of this ecological disaster . 
We do , however , deplore the indecisive nature of the resolution . 
Confining oneself to deploring the disaster and expressing sympathy for its victims without applying some restraining measures in order to oblige Total to make good all the direct and indirect consequences of the pollution for which it is entirely responsible is tantamount to doing nothing . 
It is disgusting to see Total leaving the reparation of the damage it caused to volunteers and local authorities . 
It is equally disgusting to see the State releasing funds , inadequate funds moreover , which represent nothing more than a backdoor subsidy to this firm and its criminal dealings . 
Confining oneself to discussing merely the issue of flags of convenience is dodging the main issue . 
Whatever the flag of convenience used by Total , the oil company responsible is widely known and represented in all the countries of the European Union and the authorities concerned could , if they were so inclined , seize all of its assets until the company makes payment . 
We feel we must condemn , above all , this economy in which , in order to make extra profits , a firm can ruin a region with pollution in the same way that it can ruin a region by closing factories . 
Mr President , partly on behalf of the Breton partner of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , the Union Democratique Brétonne ( UDB ) , I am asking for an effective policy to prevent further disasters of the kind involving the Erika . 
Legislation and controls should not only be tightened up but also applied to the letter . 
It was made painfully clear that a number of players need to be removed from the pitch in order to ensure that the Erika was the last unseaworthy ship to pollute the Breton coast . 
This is the seventh time that Brittany is having to deal with an oil slick since the Torrey Canyon shipwreck . 
No other region in the world has had to pay such a high price for the transport of polluting or dangerous substances by sea . 
Together with our friends from the UDB , I would argue in favour of two important guidelines relating to the complete overhaul of the world ' s merchant navy and the protection of the Breton coast ( proposals also to be found in the draft resolution which has just been approved ) . 
At EU level we would like to see one single piece of legislation drawn up for shipping , encompassing all its technical , commercial , social and environmental aspects . 
Without exception , the risky practices of flags of convenience must be banned in the ports and waters of the fifteen Member States and thirteen applicant States . 
Secondly , together with the UDB , we would argue in favour of establishing coastguard services and appointing maritime inspectors to work under the direct supervision of the relevant shipping areas and monitor the strict observance of European legislation . 
The draft resolution which we have approved contains provisions to this effect , and our Group has therefore given it its full backing . 
 -  ( FR ) I welcome the adoption by a virtually unanimous vote of the House of the resolution on the effects of the oil slick caused by the Erika . Our Group made a great contribution to drafting this resolution . 
It takes far better account than our previous resolution of the extent of the disaster , which every day seems to get far worse than anticipated on first analysis and is becoming more exacting , clearer and more urgent . 
At this stage it is still difficult to assess the total damage caused to all the fishing , fish farming and aquaculture sectors . 
We do already know , however , that it will be extensive . 
Every day , further pollution increases the toll . 
The degradation does not affect just business turnover but also valuable parts of our heritage . 
The effect upon the brand image of seafood products is hard to calculate today . 
It is also essential to include the damage suffered by businesses both upstream and downstream ( the fish trade , service providers , tourism , etc . ) and the overall costs incurred by the authorities in eliminating pollution and restoring the reputation of the tourist industry . 
Fishing and tourism , as the two chief resources in most of the regions on our Atlantic coastline , have therefore both been hard hit . 
Hence the need to clearly stipulate , as our resolution does , the principle of ' polluter cleans ' and the principle of ' polluter pays '  . 
It is in fact the job of the polluters to pay the costs for cleaning the areas suffering as a result of their actions , and for the restoration of the ecological balance damaged by their actions . 
Regarding the compensation system , the citizens are anxious because FIPOL ' s initial compensation payments to victims have been limited to 25 % . 
This is just scandalous . 
Quite obviously all victims should receive 100 % compensation . 
It would be quite unthinkable to insist that victims should bear any part of the costs of the damages they have suffered due to the incompetence of a polluter . 
Our resolution further welcomes the initiatives taken by a number of local authorities , such as the French department of Vendée , to draw up a precise assessment of the state of the coast prior to the arrival of the first waves of the oil slick . 
This procedure should be adopted as a model , since it will make it possible to expedite the compensation of victims , be they private individuals or public authorities . 
Finally , our resolution clearly stipulates that it is absolutely essential , in matters of maritime safety , to break out of this downward spiral of widespread irresponsibility , this pernicious system of mutual paralysis wherein States dump responsibility onto the Union , and the Union dumps it on the States , and in the end , the polluters are the only winners . 
Everyone must play their own part . 
The Commission , which , for once , has not followed the lead of the Americans even though it might have been beneficial in this case , should establish a basis for maritime safety at the earliest possible opportunity . 
This basis must include minimum conditions for access to Community waters and ports with regard to the age and characteristics of vessels ; a general principle of environmental responsibility making it possible to determine the liability of the various operators , and particularly that of the charterer , and to impose heavy penalties . 
The Commission should ensure the coordination of information . It should not be afraid to confront the lax attitude of some major ports or major shipowners , and should make the issue of flags of convenience a central concern in the negotiations with Malta and Cyprus . 
Let me remind you that the Erika was registered in Valletta . 
All the same , States must clearly not shift their own essential responsibility onto the Union : the safety of all concerned is conditional upon the standards and effectiveness of inspection by the port State ( and the resources made available for this ) . 
We must , and shall , remain particularly vigilant in the months to come in order to ensure that the victims who bear none of the responsibility whatsoever for this disaster receive compensation in full from the polluter , and to ensure that this time we do in fact learn the lessons from the oil slick in terms of maritime safety , so that polluters are deterred once and for all from gambling with the lives of our coastal populations . 
The most effective form of prevention is to ensure that any potential polluter is made liable to extremely heavy financial penalties . 
Katiforis report ( A5 - 0017 / 2000 ) 
We agree that the fishing industry has the most to gain from promoting respect for the marine environment . 
We must nevertheless bear in mind that there are many factors that contribute to damaging marine areas , such as contamination and pollution by oil tankers and other maritime transport , industrial activity , the pressure of human activity on coastal waters and , of course , uncontrolled fishing activity . 
It is worth emphasising , however , that small - scale coastal fishing is a good example of how fishing activity can be combined with sustainable development that does not threaten the marine environment . 
We feel that it is possible to create a fisheries management policy based on conserving the marine environment which is compatible with the interests of fishing communities . 
But in order for this to happen , we must specifically take account of the fact that there is a correlation between income from fishing and an increase in fishing effort . 
It is therefore necessary to adopt measures under the common fisheries policy and to provide appropriate financial resources to guarantee the income of those who depend entirely on fishing for their livelihood , such as fishermen , particularly at times when fishing activity is suspended or reduced . 
Hence the importance of our amendments , which sought to achieve this . 
 -  ( FR ) The Commission communication lists a series of objectives and proposals reporting the need to continue the efforts undertaken in the field of inspection and supervision , to adopt new technical measures under the heading of the selectivity of fishing techniques , monitoring the application of legislation in force , etc . In its communication , however , at the same time the Commission specifies that it is not in a position to ensure that this legislation is complied with . 
The fact is that there is no lack of existing measures and appropriate means . The Commission has a whole arsenal of restrictive conditions , measures and decisions ( at both international and Community level ) already in force in the fisheries and marine environment protection sectors . 
Effectiveness and excessive regulation are not compatible . 
It should be remembered that people working in maritime sectors are willing to apply Community legislation on condition that it is applied equitably in all the Member States , that it is both acceptable and applicable in technical terms , and has a proper scientific foundation . 
I find it unacceptable that one of the officials of the European Commission in the Committee on Fisheries should have dared to state in public that the financial resources awarded by the Commission to some scientific bodies should give it the right to have control over their conclusions . 
This is an extremely serious abuse : obviously the Commission must not assume any right whatsoever to direct the scientists ' conclusions in order to be able to apply the policy it deems suitable , taking only its own interests into account . 
As regards reducing the pressure exerted by fishing upon resources , it is important to emphasise the international nature of this obligation . 
What real point would there be in reducing our European fishing fleet if , at the same time , third countries were going to continue to deplete fisheries resources ? 
Moreover , it must be observed that the development of the globalisation of trade has the effect of considerably reducing the effectiveness of inspection and supervision of fishing activities . 
Transhipment has become common practice and frequently fish products from one Member State which cannot be sold within the Union due to exceeding the TAC are sold as imported products or as originating from another Member State . 
The latter occurs very frequently in businesses whose capital came from a Member State other than the flag State of the fishing vessel ( this is actually a way of concealing ' quota - hopping '  ) . 
Food safety with regard to seafood is also of prime importance . 
It is essential to safeguard the positive image of seafood products and to prevent unsafe food being sold in the European Union . 
The members of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group shall therefore be voting against this report which does not go into details of the deficiencies of the Commission communication and increases Natura 2000 constraints upon the fisheries sector . 
That concludes the vote . 
Adjournment of the session
The session is adjourned . 
Resumption of the session
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on 2 March 2000 . 
Madam President , this is actually about an event which has taken place since the last sitting , a hearing held by the Committee on Women ' s Rights and Equal Opportunities . 
There was a grave danger of this House ' s reputation being damaged . 
You see , it emerged that during the plenary part - sessions there is a significant rise in prostitution in the area , in Strasbourg . 
I would cordially request that you look into this matter with the Strasbourg authorities and investigate whether criminal activity is at work here , and whether it is linked to trafficking in women and forced prostitution . 
I think that we need , as a matter of urgency , to send out a clear message to public opinion that we are doing something about this and I believe that the European Parliament cannot be indifferent to what is reported in public about what goes on on the fringes of plenary part - sessions . 
Thank you , Mrs Gröner . 
I would like to say that I was , like yourself , extremely shocked to hear this and immediately wrote to the Mayor of Strasbourg in order to get to the bottom of this issue . 
I fully agree with your remarks and have even been proactive in responding to your wishes . 
I will , of course , keep you updated on the reply that Mr Ries is bound to send me . 
We get bad news in these points of order very often , but I have very good news for our Dutch colleagues . 
They now have two television channels . 
 ( Applause and laughter ) The Quaestors are working hard on their behalf and we are waiting for the Finnish television channel . 
We have two German channels as well , so happy viewing everybody . 
I hope you enjoy it . 
I am absolutely delighted , Mrs Banotti , and think that the Members concerned should thank our Quaestors wholeheartedly . 
Madam President , I would simply like to add to what Mrs Gröner has said . 
We have indeed learned that during the plenary sessions in Brussels and Strasbourg - Strasbourg is not the only place this happens - there was a massive influx of prostitutes , and in particular young women from Eastern Europe . 
You will be aware that terrible things happen to these women , that they are tortured and their families threatened . It is not only in Strasbourg that this happens . 
I believe that we should all sit down and discuss this , that this Parliament should denounce this state of affairs and above all that it should play a full part in eradicating such modern - day slavery . 
Thank you , Mrs Roure , for this additional information . 
We will assess the situation when in Brussels too , and then see what should be done . 
Madam President , on behalf of the entire Dutch contingent , I would like to extend warm thanks to Mrs Banotti for all the efforts she has made to ensure that we now have two Dutch television channels . 
Madam President , I would like to talk about a quite different matter , which concerns Iran . 
There has been a dialogue between the various political groups , both at the Conference of Presidents and elsewhere , and would like , during the plenary part - session , to urge you to write to the President of the Republic of Iran , Mr Khatami , regarding the fate of five students who were arrested in July 1999 and who are still in prison , one of whom has been sentenced to death . 
I feel that it would be an appropriate gesture on your part , as the President of this Parliament , to appeal to President Khatami to , at the very least , suspend the death sentence passed on this Iranian student . 
Thank you , Mr Jonckheer . 
I will happily comply with your request . 
Madam President , I do not think that Mrs Banotti should be cock - a - hoop today because she has laid on two Dutch TV channels . 
It would have been better if she had obtained channels in all languages . 
I hope we shall be getting a Danish channel next time . 
Thank you , Mr Blak . 
As you can see , Mrs Banotti , you still have your work cut out for you . 
Madam President , I have learnt a new code of conduct here in the European Parliament , where one always has to express one ' s thanks . 
I too would like to say thank you for the fact that here we can watch a Finnish television channel . 
I would like to say thank you for the fact that there was sound the last time I tried it , and I would like to say thank you for the fact that today too there is sound , but back home we also have a picture . 
I hope that we will also be getting a picture on the Finnish language television channel and not just the sound . 
Then I would like to say thank you for the fact that we have got cold water in the taps . 
Back home we also have hot water , but at least it is good to have some water . 
Thank you , Mr Seppänen . 
Special European Council ( 23 - 24 March 2000 in Lisbon ) 
The next items are the Council and Commission statements on the Special European Council in Lisbon , which is to be held on 23 and 24 March . 
It is my great pleasure to give the floor to the Prime Minster , António Guterres . 
I would like to thank the President - in - Office of the Council , Mr Antonio Guterres , and immediately give the floor to Mr Romano Prodi , President of the Commission . 
Madam President , I would first of all like to extend my warmest congratulations to Prime Minister Guterres for his initiative for the Lisbon Summit , and congratulate him on the quality of the preparatory work . 
We fully approve of the breakdown he presented to us , which received such an ovation , and we support his initiative . 
Together , we can make the Lisbon Summit a success . 
I will restrict myself in this speech to presenting the Commission ' s contribution to Lisbon - our long - term strategy and our vision for this Summit . 
In Lisbon , very simply , we will have to decide whether Europe will be able to regain its leading role in the economic and technological worlds , relinquished long ago . 
This will depend on us , on whether we are able to boost the economic growth of the European system sufficiently , on the extent to which we are able to generate employment , on the level of education of our citizens and on the training we give our workers . 
These are familiar topics , as Prime Minister Guterres has said , but this summit is not going to be another Luxembourg , Cardiff or Cologne : we want to take a completely new approach to these issues , which we have already tackled in the past , and , rather than taking each one in isolation , deal with them collectively and , at last , create an intervention system . 
Now is the time to do this because there is currently a good chance of succeeding . 
In fact , this is a unique opportunity , and it is the result of the recent , successful implementation of a wise policy : inflation is low , the balance of payments is in a generally healthy state , public finances are in order and there is , at last , a unanimous forecast of strong economic growth , although , as the Portuguese Prime Minister stressed , this does not mean that economic growth is guaranteed . 
Never has this generation witnessed such a consensus of all the economic experts in Europe in forecasting strong and sustained growth . 
Even the rise in oil prices did not cause an increase in inflation or halt this economic expansion , as might have been expected . 
There are , nevertheless , a number of warning signs , but these are not of a nature to stop us proceeding with a development policy as we had intended and planned to do . 
The challenges awaiting us in Lisbon are therefore very simple : we must meet the challenge of technology by regaining lost ground in the areas of knowledge and technical skills , especially retraining technologies . 
This will put us back in the lead , and this is why we adopted the e - Europe initiative , which prompted the Commission to set a practical example in its administrative reform . 
We committed ourselves , and I confirm this commitment before this House , to creating a Commission , or perhaps I should say an e - Commission , in which all correspondence regarding supplies , research etc . relating to this institution will no longer be dealt with on paper but will all be carried out directly by e - mail . 
This is an extremely complicated undertaking , but we will succeed because our mission is very clear , we are a relatively small institution and we have a very high level of culture . 
By doing so , we want to set a clear example to all the European governments and all the administrations with which we will have to communicate by e - mail instead of on paper . 
In addition to this , we are facing a social challenge : the need to fight unemployment and social exclusion . 
President Guterres ' address revealed a systemic approach based both on introducing modern technology and also ensuring that this does not lead to new forms of social exclusion . This was the serious risk of the development which took place during the eighties and also of more recent development . 
I have to say that I am extremely concerned by the fact that the income discrepancies in European society are constantly widening instead of diminishing : this aspect of the social divide is of fundamental importance and must be taken into due consideration if we want to avoid the complete disintegration of society in the near future . 
Our summit will therefore be on sustainable development and employment . As we have already done , not without some opposition from certain quarters , we can and must set full employment as a possible goal . 
We have been through a tough period , but I can assure you that there is nothing unrealistic in this goal . 
It is well within our reach because we have a solid macroeconomic basis , to which we must now add the Lisbon Summit , in terms of human resources and new ideas regarding the market and the harnessing of technical skills and research . 
Human resources mean education , training and reform of the Welfare State in order to deal , in particular , with the problem of an ageing society . 
We have not always managed to find an adequate solution to this problem , which is affecting all our countries and becoming more serious every day . 
And it is not going to go away . 
I am confident that in Lisbon we will be able to take a step forwards , pooling benchmarking experiments and proposals on this major issue . 
It is not true that we have achieved a perfect single market : there is still a great deal to do in this area . 
We need further structural reform ; in particular , we need to resolve the situation in the services , electronic commerce , transport and energy sections , for there are still a large number of public services which are underperforming in terms of competitiveness and efficiency . 
If we want to halt inflation by raising oil prices , we must take action at both European and national levels to improve these services , and the same applies to financial and banking services . 
We therefore need - and I am saying this because the slump has lasted quite a while now - a European company statute , a Community patent , a more liquid capital market and better procurement rules . 
These are operational points which cannot be dismissed . 
We at the Commission will do our part and , I repeat , we will introduce all these new technologies within the institution in all our procedures and relations with the outside world . 
However , since it is our desire to be a model of efficient administration , we must endeavour to operate in such a way that this takes place all over the continent and we are able to be instrumental in expanding technical skills and technology . 
We must mobilise individual citizens , local authorities , national governments , businesses and trade unions . 
As President Guterres said , the main goal of Lisbon will be to set up this network . 
To achieve results , we need a new method , and , as the Portuguese Prime Minister said in his speech , clear macroeconomic parameters for this activity . 
We are not introducing a new process : we are not adding anything new , but for the first time we are combining the existing processes and there is a chance this may bring success . 
However , we do have to introduce something different : we have to find a way of assessing our progress and providing public opinion with tangible facts , and we therefore have to use a benchmarking system . By the term benchmarking , which was relatively unknown up until a few years ago , I mean a completely institutional means of comparing and assessing our progress . 
We must be constantly , fully aware of the areas in which we have lost ground , and there are many of them . One example is biotechnology , in which we have been relatively unsuccessful in recent years . 
We must disseminate best practice in all fields and endeavour to advance it at European level . 
In Lisbon , we will find the fruit of our preparations , on which we have worked together , with the cooperation , for which I am extremely grateful , of the Portuguese Presidency . We will find specific , operational undertakings , clear objectives and a limited number of tangible , but assessable measures which will enable us to speed up change and make progress , because leadership in the next century is being decided now . 
We will achieve a great , strong , common Europe only if we are able , once again , to offer our citizens the joy of regaining our lost primacy . 
I would like to thank the President of the Commission , and immediately give the floor to Mr Suominen , who will speak on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats . 
Madam President , President - in - Office of the Council , Prime Minister Guterres , President of the Commission , Mr Prodi , on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party and European Democrats , I have to say that we are mainly in agreement with those ideas which Mr Guterres and Mr Prodi have put forward here . 
On behalf of my group , I would like to congratulate Portugal , as the country holding the presidency , on organising the European Council in Lisbon , and we obviously wish you every success in your endeavours . 
I would like to raise a few issues from our perspective . 
As far as the prosperity of the citizens of the Union is concerned the most important task is to try to maintain sustainable economic growth in the area , all the time seeing to it that there is an increase in regional equality with respect to prosperity and that more and more people are able to earn a satisfactory income from their work without having to resort to social benefits . 
The processes which have been put in place , by common agreement , to improve levels of employment , boost economic renewal and increase social cohesion within the territory of the Union are extremely important . 
It is only right that the meeting in Lisbon at the end of the month should stop to consider where we are exactly . 
Despite the diverse nature of these processes , they must have one common purpose : to improve people ' s quality of life in the Union . 
We do not need new organisations , new working parties or new fora to achieve this objective , however . 
The tools are surely known to all . 
Often , however , national considerations , and sometimes ideological resistance also , mean that these tools do not get used . 
The most important task now is to remove the barriers to creating a real European home market as quickly as possible , instead of continuing to manoeuvre , in many sectors , within a framework of fifteen separate home markets . 
When the idea of the single market was launched with some vigour in the 1980s , we could still move towards our destination at the speed of a local steam locomotive , figuratively speaking . 
Now , with the rapid advent of electronic commerce , and with the speed at which we process and utilise transfers of data reaching new levels , we need to move at Mika Häkkinen Formula 1 speed at the very least . 
We must , however , be sure that the engine does not give out before the decision makers get to the finishing line . 
How can we imagine being able to create the world ' s most competitive economic area unless we venture to free up competition within the area ? 
The opening up of competition that has already been agreed for the telecommunications industry , as with the energy sector also , will create new , much - needed jobs and bring down prices for both industry and consumers . 
Similarly , removing restrictions for small and middle - sized industries - whether they have to do with complex bureaucratic procedures , the acquisition of venture capital or questions of taxation - is a vital step on the path to improved competitiveness and prosperity . 
Global competitiveness also includes the notion of a reasonable level of tax harmonisation and the modernisation of our social system so that at least the countries in the Union with high rates of taxation can reduce those rates , which restrict employment . 
A basis for all this is created through education and training , and research , however . 
It is quite right to strive to create an information infrastructure quickly , which private individuals , schools and businesses can all as easily be a part of at reasonable or even no expense . 
We have to consider in particular the future creation and maintenance of resources in promising sectors in terms of employment . These are obviously information technology , electronic commerce , tourism , and , for example , services for the elderly , as our populations are undeniably ageing all the time . 
There are two issues that must be emphasised both by us and the Commission and the Council , and we must always draw attention to them . 
These tasks are still mainly the responsibility of the Member States - whether it is the issue of education and training , and research , increased competition or removing barriers to entrepreneurship . 
Coordination is natural in many sectors - within the framework of the tasks of the Union also - to avoid overlapping , but healthy , honest competition is still more important than coordination , including in many non - commercial sectors . 
Benchmarking and best practice , which the Commission recommends , calls for a large measure of Europe - wide transparency in those fields where industrial secrecy does not apply . 
The Group of the European People ' s Party and European Democrats would like to emphasise that its ambition is to develop a social , or , as they say these days , an eco - social market economy , which takes account of the welfare of all sections of society , as well as the environment . 
In the achievement of our goal we wish to stress the importance of the European model of society , and , at the same time , the notion that it cannot be a rigid , stagnant system , one based on advantages gained in society , but it must be one that develops as society changes . 
The modernisation of the European social model and its increased effectiveness are as important for our competitiveness as the corresponding modernisation of the economy . 
Work must be the most sensible way of improving the welfare of families , but if it really is not possible , we have in place society ' s safety net to prevent exclusion . 
A certain change in working methods is in danger of becoming a social problem for the positive development of human relations : telecommunications , the Internet , the terminals at which we work , and television , which already seems like a venerable , ancient medium , are threatening to give the relationship between man and machine a key role in society . 
The most important issue , however , is developing mature interpersonal relationships in the family , at work , in society and in international relations . 
As the importance of education is being stressed we have to make our youth aware of that early on in their development . 
The Commission refers , appropriately in my opinion , to deficits that hinder the growth of employment in the Union . 
We might mention the skills deficit as one example . 
In a Union that has fifteen million unemployed there is now a shortage of labour to the tune of around one million workers in industries that are suffering from a skills deficit . 
Some are suggesting importing a trained elite into the Union area . 
I would ask whether this would be fair to countries less developed than ours , as this would create a brain drain for them . 
The UN , on the other hand , has referred to the fact that in a few years ' time there will be a shortfall of 40 million workers as a result of demographic change . 
It will be difficult to conduct a sober policy , one that produces results only very slowly , which must be implemented here and now , if we are presenting the citizens of Europe with such a picture of the future as this , while they themselves fear for their jobs . 
Madam President , today ' s debate is welcome , necessary and timely . 
We all recognise that the European Union , in spite of economic recovery , is still working well below par for too many people ; specifically for 15 million of our fellow citizens the EU is simply not working at all . 
This is an affront to individual and collective dignity and it gives us at least 15 million reasons why we should carry on with the project that you have highlighted here today , Mr Prime Minister . 
I too would like to welcome the fact that you have come to this House to dialogue with us before you go to your summit meeting . 
The potential is clear : if the European Union , today , in its Member States , were to attain the best practice already achieved by its existing states and by its competitors we would have 30 million more jobs , twice as many as are currently unemployed . 
That is a practical measure of the potential if we can get the policies and methods right . 
The task of Lisbon has been correctly identified by you , Prime Minister , and by President Prodi as no less than shifting European policy towards a new practice , towards a new paradigm . 
We in the ELDR Group believe that the Union ' s job at this stage is to develop this new paradigm so that there is a sense of an enabling Europe : enabling our citizens to achieve their full potential . 
Through greater coherence in terms of bench - marking , sharing best practice and improving strategic cooperation and coordination , the EU can be an important factor in releasing a new economic dynamic . 
Too many of our European markets are still too fragmented . 
Not enough European small and medium - sized enterprises grow into world - beaters . 
There are too few entrepreneurs in Europe . 
There is too little enterprise in Europe . 
You have remarked yourself , Prime Minister , that there is too little risk capital available on European capital markets . 
We undertake too little research and development , individually as states and collectively as Europe . 
Where we do , too little of it is converted into market product and services . 
The Lisbon challenge is to delineate policy and methods for redressing these deficiencies and to release this potential dynamic . 
This truly would be an enabling exercise . 
If we can give people jobs this will prove to be the greatest weapon in the fight against social exclusion . 
The new paradigm must also necessarily be people - based , reflecting the concept of lifelong learning , investing in adaptability through education and training and investing in self - development and individual opportunity . 
Mr Barón Crespo has described it as a Social Democrat project . 
I am moved to describe it myself rather as an enlightened Liberal project . 
Within the constraints of the budget and of sound macro - economic policy - I underline those as President Prodi has already done - strictly speaking our European social models offer a welfare safety net . 
But for too many of the excluded and the long - term unemployed , the young , women and other marginalised groups , passive welfare dependency is not enough . It is a trap . 
What we have to do is release this new dynamic at individual level by saying the resources are there , even within the framework of sound finance . 
But they are used in a passive way . 
They have to be reconverted into active models of welfare focused on encouraging all those people who can , to do , and those who cannot , to continue to be protected . 
We can best guarantee the fight against unemployment and encourage social cohesion in Europe through having an employment - rich economy and through having sustainable models of welfare . 
Finally , on the knowledge society , it is very clear that we need to convert our thinking , not just at a technological but also at a social level . 
It is very clear that we need to convert old social spending methods into new economic and social opportunity . 
We need to shake off the policies and methods that have condemned a generation of Europeans to be second - best on the world stage . 
We can do that by enabling Europe and its peoples to achieve our full potential . 
If Lisbon can meet the targets spoken of here today , it will be an important step on that road to releasing the dynamic to which I have referred . 
Mr Prime Minister , we would like to believe , along with you and the Portuguese Presidency , that Europe should be built as a civilisation whose economic and social prosperity is founded on the cultivation of knowledge , cultural diversity and cohesion , and which plays an active role in promoting a world order that is more balanced , more peaceful , and less fragmented . 
We would also like to believe , along with yourselves , that there is generally a clear awareness that the scale of the changes that must be envisaged in terms of the qualifications needed to address the new technological challenges facing companies itself brings with it the inherent risk of creating new mechanisms for social exclusion , to cite you once more . 
We would like to believe this , but we cannot . 
Why ? 
Because we know that the new economy will , of course , foster the emergence of new jobs for creative staff , for IT staff . 
We can see the feverish way in which the potential for investors has snowballed and the phenomenon of ' start - ups ' has developed , but we are also aware of the staff turnover that typifies call centres due to the dreadful working conditions that reign in these new temples of Taylorism , which employ hundreds of thousands of people . 
We know that over half the jobs currently being created in the European Union are precarious , temporary or perforce part - time , and as a result provide the employee with neither the conditions for self - reliance nor , very often , an income that offers them a decent standard of living . 
We know that new technologies do not , in themselves , generate greater democracy , but simply greater collective and personal autonomy for those citizens who are better integrated into mainstream society . 
We know that the privatisation of public services poses a threat to social , regional and local cohesion , and we also know that the Commission is proposing to accelerate this process . 
We know that UNICE has , on behalf of the employers , publicly shown its colours in the preparatory documents for the European business summit to be held in Brussels in June : the public authorities are requested to remove all social , regulatory and fiscal barriers to the development of business and to invest massively in shoring up demand . 
Lastly , we know that anyone who claims to meet the needs of the citizens must first ensure their total involvement in public policy decisions . 
We know all of this . 
But we have read and heard nothing as regards the incorporation of the recommendation of the high - level group of experts , whose opinion it is that the unqualified economic success of the information society depends on this society being fuelled by the real needs of its citizens , rather than by the demands of market forces in the hi - tech sector . 
We have heard nothing about support being provided to all practical trials involving the public - minded use of new information technologies by the general public , nor about the role of associations for learning and information being promoted for all sectors of society . 
We have heard nothing about the possibility of public funds being freed up to promote innovation in the field of products and services liable to improve the quality of life for all . 
We have heard nothing about the universal telecommunications service being redefined in order to make it possible for everyone to access the Internet under the best possible technical conditions and at affordable rates . 
In short , we have heard nothing to suggest that the citizen will be anything more than a customer . 
We have heard nothing to suggest that , over and above the positive and clearly - stated objective of eradicating child poverty , personal autonomy would be enhanced , in each Member State , by the setting of decent minimum wages , which are an integral part of a genuine strategy to end social exclusion . 
We have heard nothing to suggest that the objective of full employment would cover support for local and regional initiatives , the underground sector of the mutually - supportive economy , the practical and coordinated reduction of working times , or that this objective would tally with strict requirements as regards the quality and durability of these jobs . 
We have heard nothing to suggest that opting for sustainable development would be a guiding factor in long - awaited growth . 
We can find nothing in the document from the Portuguese Presidency , nor in the Commission ' s strategic guidelines for 2000 , that reveals the slightest trace of a legislative programme in the field of social policy , be this to bolster the rights of employees threatened with redundancy or to prevent social dumping . 
We can but share the concern of the Council and the Commission to see the European Union , after the single market and after the euro , finally equipping itself with a political project that is accessible to all its citizens , but the new governance of which you are - in my opinion unfairly - priding yourselves lacks the democratic and participatory ambition to which nascent European civil society aspires . 
Madam President , Mr President - in - Office and Prime Minister of Portugal , the current situation in the Union and in most of the Member States is bound to raise legitimate concerns , in spite of the overall economic recovery . 
The rate of unemployment has stayed relatively high , long - term unemployment is growing steadily worse and levels of employment are extremely low . 
To add to this , there is an increasing lack of job security which makes matters even worse . 
All this reflects a social situation in which women and young people are being particularly badly hit , and which is dramatically highlighted by the approximately 50 million people excluded from society . 
On the eve of the Special Council dedicated to this problem , the basic question being asked is whether there is the political will to change this situation or whether , on the other hand , what we have is merely another ineffective initiative to add to the list of plans , strategies and summits in the past that have already been devoted to this issue and none of which has resulted in real change . 
It is our opinion that it is not only necessary to change this state of affairs , but that it is also possible to do so . 
It is necessary because employment , and I mean quality employment with employee rights , is a fundamental right of every human being . 
It is possible if we attack the real causes , which we feel are inseparable from the drift towards neo - liberalism , which has been shaping underlying trends , specifically in the macroeconomic field . 
This theory , whose exponents have given priority to the Stability Pact and to the nominal convergence criteria , and who have consequently sidelined social cohesion , generally goes hand in hand with a complete deregulation of employment , with incentives for privatisation , mergers and delocalisation , which as a rule , create unemployment , and with highly restrictive budgetary policies at Community and national level . 
We are therefore now witnessing a clear consolidation of the basic core of Thatcherite tendencies , even if they are attenuated by aid measures . 
Today , they are no longer so much being promoted in line with much vaunted conservative principles , as on the grounds of so - called globalising pragmatism and in the name of competitiveness , which has been elevated to godlike status . 
An appeal for the coordination of social policies or an insistence on a society based on innovation and knowledge or on information technology will therefore not be enough , however important they may be . 
It is crucial for us to abandon this monetarist and anti - social approach and put humans at the heart of our priorities and policies . 
My Group , which attaches particular importance to social issues , met in Lisbon last week in view of the forthcoming Special Council , precisely in order to examine and discuss this issue . 
We had an opportunity to listen to and hold discussions with workers ' representatives and with union leaders from Portugal and other parts of Europe . 
In particular , we met representatives from ABB , from Michelin and also the organisers of job marches . 
We reached joint conclusions on 14 points , of which we will officially inform the Presidency . 
Basically , as far as we are concerned , we need to adopt macroeconomic political measures which are based on stimulating demand , on public investment and on respect for improved public services . These measures should be geared towards full employment and guarantee a rate of employment of around 75 % by 2010 . 
We must ensure a redistribution of profit towards labour , ensure that speculative movements of capital are taxed , we must combat tax evasion and fraud , and curb mergers and delocalisation , particularly when they involve redundancies . We must move ahead with reductions in working hours without reducing wages and without downgrading the quality of jobs , and we must reconsider the EU ' s Financial Perspectives , give clear support to small and medium - sized enterprises , firmly commit ourselves to an improved education system and more and better professional training and end the discrimination that mainly affects women and young people . 
We will examine and judge the results of the Lisbon Summit in the light of these factors and in the light of our ability to establish concrete , properly quantified and timetabled objectives in this key area . 
Madam President , Mr President - in - Office of the Council , Mr President of the Commission . no one could possibly obejct to re - establishing the conditions for full employment , triggering a dynamic for growth , or pushing the nations of Europe to the forefront of the world economy . 
But we must surely oppose some of your policies , some of your principles , and a certain economic fundamentalism . 
The treaties have already awarded you far too many powers and far too much scope for action in the field of trade and the economy , with the disastrous consequences which are evident in all areas , and can be ascribed to your ultra - liberal and internationalist policies . 
You declare yourselves to be concerned at the fate of the millions of poor and unemployed whose situation your policies have in fact done much to create . 
Unfortunately , nothing is changing and nothing is going to change . 
You intend to pour oil on the fire and apply the same ill - advised methods and the same economic principles to areas which have , until now , escaped your grasp : education , wage policy , direct taxation , employment law , social protection , social assistance . 
The most extraordinary thing in all this is that this socially regressive policy has in the main been implemented by left wing governments of varying hues - pink , red , green - who advocate social justice during electoral campaigns , but orchestrate widespread social decline once in power . 
I must at this point stress our conviction that there can be no social policy nor full employment policy without national and European preferences , and without protecting our markets from fierce international competition . 
It is our obligation to put Europeans first when it comes to employment , social protection , policies relating to the family , and retirement policy . 
Your globalisation of the economy is neither necessary nor inevitable . 
This globalisation has been forcibly imposed by the only superpower to have survived the cold war and by multinational companies which are becoming economic superpowers in their own right and who can subjugate to their economic will states , nations and peoples who are quite unable to protect themselves . 
You are thus acting as accomplices in this process . 
You are facilitating it , collaborating with it , and are in fact orchestrating , despite your declared intentions , the disintegration of our social welfare systems , precariousness , and social decline . 
The European social model runs the risk of not being able to cater for this globalisation of the economy , especially in its current form which operates with no regard for specific social issues nor the specific national characteristics of individual States . 
Your ultra - liberal headlong rush is thus surely not the solution to social problems , precariousness or employment problems faced by tens of millions of European citizens . 
Mr President , the Lisbon Summit will produce a further string of fine words to dazzle us with . 
The words will be welcome , but the basic problem is that we have an Economic and Monetary Union which attaches more importance to fighting inflation than to promoting employment . 
The Central Bank has said that price rises should always be kept below 2 % . 
The Stability Pact says that the budget deficit must be no more than 1 % in ordinary years . 
There is no requirement that unemployment should be below 5 % or - better still - below 2 or 1 % . 
It is public consumption and the price of money which definitely must not rise . 
You might think that a country would wish to limit unemployment by means of public investment , but that is prohibited . 
It is more important to stick to the holy cow of monetary policy than to find jobs for the unemployed . 
I , on the other hand , think it is more important to take account of families ' finances and to ensure that dad comes home with a wage packet instead of a redundancy notice . 
So too did the Danish Government which came to power in 1993 . 
In 1992 we had 9 . 2 % unemployment , both in Denmark and in the eleven countries of the good old EU . 
Between 1992 and 1998 , unemployment in Denmark fell to 5 . 1 % . 
In the EU , it increased to 10 . 9 % . 
In Denmark , we have had combined growth of 20 % , compared with 10 % in the EU . 
If the Danish Government had acted in the same way under the present dispensation , it would have been downright illegal and unconstitutional because the budget deficit was 3 . 9 % at that time . 
Now , Denmark also has an actual budget surplus because those who exchanged their redundancy notices for wage packets also began to pay tax instead of drawing benefit . 
I believe that the EU ' s prime ministers ought to study the Danish example when they meet for their tête - à - tête on the economy in Lisbon . 
We need a change to the EMU Treaty instead of a further string of fine words directed at the unemployed . 
My group hopes that Danish voters will decide to keep the Danish krone when they take part in the referendum on membership of EMU on 28 September of this year . 
Mr President - in - Office , I listened to your speech with great interest and it is obvious that in overall terms , no one here today could fail to agree with what you have said . 
You have made statements of intent , which correspond to the vision we all share of the problems of jobs and of Europe in general . 
From this point of view , we must also think about one of the objectives for the Lisbon Summit that you mentioned , namely combating the political deficit in Europe . 
It is precisely because I think that if we continue to do nothing but make broad statements of this kind , we will find it hard to overcome this political deficit , that I would like to ask you a few specific questions in order to try to understand what policy will be implemented under your presidency after the Lisbon Summit . 
My first question , which is a very direct one , is about an institutional issue which we now have the opportunity to discuss with you for the first time as President - in - Office of the European Council . 
This concerns the most serious political problem we have had to face in recent times - the problem of Austria . 
The question that I would like to ask very clearly is this : are you representing 14 EU countries here or 15 ? 
This is a perfectly sensible question because as President - in - Office of the European Union , you have worked and acted as the spokesperson for bilateral decisions between states . 
From this point of view , this question is perfectly sensible and requires the clearest possible answer . 
I think that in institutional terms , it is an extremely serious matter that we are moving towards replacing collegiate decisions , which the European Union is bound to observe under the Treaty , by means of bilateral decisions between governments . 
I am not talking about the causes of the Austrian issue . I am talking about the serious precedent that we might be setting if today we replace the collegiate procedure stipulated in the Treaties by means of bilateral decisions , in this case aimed at one particular country , because tomorrow we might adopt the same approach towards a different country or countries . 
That is my first question . 
My second question is about the Employment Summit . 
I firmly believed , particularly because I attended the discussions on including the employment problem on the Council agenda , and on the European Union agenda , that the original idea of the Employment Summit was to combat the problems , not of the new knowledge - based economy , but of the old European economy , the problems of unemployment in factories , dockyards , iron and steelworks , and that these were the employment problems which were originally due to be on the Employment Summit agenda . 
It is therefore perfectly reasonable to raise the question of whether , when we talk about the problems of the new knowledge - based economy and of the new digital economy , which , as far as I know have created unemployment rather than employment in Europe , we are not replacing an inability to deal with the problems of unemployment in the present by what has largely been - and still is today - empty rhetoric about the problems of employment in the future . . . 
No one understands better than us the crucial role that the Internet , the digital economy and the knowledge - based economy have to play , but these issues were not what the Employment Summit was originally intended for . 
Mr President - in - Office , you concluded on a vaguely ideological note , which is fair enough . 
If this is the Social Democrats ' policy for the economy of the future , then I would like to remind you that one of the most serious problems of the Internet economy and Europe ' s lagging behind is the lack of entrepreneurial spirit in the education system , in the behaviour of governments and in the way the institutions function . 
This is what we must counter if we are to guarantee the knowledge - based economy of the future . 
