Mr President - in - Office , first of all , I would like to welcome you to the European Parliament , particularly as your presence here symbolises what the Chairman of the Group of the Party of European Socialists has already referred to . By that I mean the political symbolism of the fact that during your tour of the capitals , you have also come to listen to the European Parliament . 
This is not the first time during the Portuguese Presidency that there has been a different and politically stimulating relationship between the Council and Parliament , but this is a significant gesture which , as my friend and colleague Mr Barón Crespo noted , we were delighted to note . 
Our position is clear : we support the Portuguese Government ' s initiative . We support it because it is a serious initiative and because of its substance , both in terms of strategic objectives and in terms of other objectives with which we agree . 
Furthermore , the way in which this European Council is being prepared is a good illustration of this . 
Firstly , there is the seriousness and depth of the document presented in January . 
Then , there are the various preparatory conferences and the contributions that both business and union leaders are making towards this summit . 
In particular , there is the latest contribution to research that was made at the recent meeting which brought together Nobel Prize winners and Ministers for Science and Technology . 
This shows that the Portuguese Government is preparing for this Summit seriously and is paying a great deal of attention to its substance . 
However , we also support the initiative relating to the summit ' s main objective , which has already been mentioned . We do so because for the first time , it is not only putting the issue of employment and social issues at the centre of the European debate but is once again suggesting that " achieving the objective of full employment " is in the realm of the possible . 
For years , many people have said this was impossible , that in modern society it would never again be possible . 
My congratulations , Mr President - in - Office , for making this issue topical once again without rejecting social cohesion and values which we hold to be fundamental , because they are not only at the heart of the founding project of the EU , but they are at the heart of our civilisation and , above all , of our understanding of the need for solidarity between all Europeans . 
Something that we said here in January and that I would like to repeat is that we must not be satisfied with this strategic objective being the priority of one presidency , a priority for just six months . 
We challenge the Council and the Commission once again to include it , not as a priority for six months , but as a goal for the EU , as important as the goal of enlarging or deepening the European Union . 
Only in this way will it be able to match the degree of seriousness with which the presidency is preparing this Special Summit . 
I congratulate you , Mr President - in - Office . 
Mr President , Mr President - in - Office of the Council , Mr President of the Commission , I should like to express my delight at the fact that a bullish agenda has been set for the issues of employment and economic development at the Lisbon Summit . 
It is an agenda which emphasises that it is a strong and dynamic economy and increased competitiveness which will secure the objective of higher employment in the EU . 
The fact that the EU lags so far behind the United States with regard to research , job creation and the development of new technology gives pause for thought . 
A joint effort is needed to strengthen research and development , including research in connection with information technology , and there is a need to strengthen the internal market and to create the necessary conditions for receiving the full benefits from the new technology and for developing trade via the Internet . 
It is right to focus upon access to , and use of , the Internet by public officials and by the education system and to create what has been called " the learning society "  . 
It is also only right to concentrate upon access to venture capital and otherwise to reinforce the position of small and medium - sized businesses . 
In its discussion paper for the Summit , the Commission set quantified objectives for developments in the field of employment , including women ' s employment , and for the fight against unemployment . 
In the same paper , the Commission also set the objective of mitigating the problems connected with poverty in Europe over the next ten years . 
I think it is only right to place the emphasis on common objectives , for countries ' actual policies in this area will , and should , be different from one another . Some EU countries - mentioning no names - are struggling with high youth unemployment . 
In other countries - for example , in my own country , Denmark - youth unemployment is very low . Indeed , there is an outright struggle between employers and educational institutions to attract young people . 
There are differences between the countries when it comes to problems , systems , culture and tradition , and there should therefore be differences in the methods chosen in order to achieve the common goals of increased employment and reduced social exclusion . 
With the exchange of experiences and ideas as part of the Luxembourg process , employment policy is designed in such a way as to ensure that this will , in fact , be the case . 
Even if the problems we are facing over the next few years regarding both employment and social policy have a long list of features in common and therefore also constitute common challenges , it is as individual nations that we must solve some of these problems . 
However , it is also very important that countries should not work at cross purposes when solving the social problems in question but , on the contrary , that they should cooperate and provide each other with inspiration . 
I would say that it is important that we should aim to achieve common objectives , but that it is also important that individual countries should retain their responsibility for , and sovereignty in , establishing social and employment policy and that we should have a certain degree of competition between systems so as to ensure that social and employment policy is shaped in a progressive and dynamic way . 
Mr President , as representative of Flanders and on behalf of - what I would call - the nation regions , embodied in the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance , I was touched by your appeal for a powerful European approach , where the fifteen Member States do not try to gain power but where the power of cooperation increases . 
You pointed out that there are fifteen different public opinions , but , in fact , there are many more than that . 
There are , after all , huge differences within the Member States . 
Coming from Belgium , I do not need to point out that there is a difference of opinion between Flanders and Wallonia , or between former East and West Germany ? 
Furthermore , our public opinion threatens to become polarised as a result of globalisation . 
Where there used to be a discrepancy between the haves and the have - nots , there are now those who can keep up as opposed to those who cannot or those who drop out of society . 
This is a very serious risk . 
In Europe , everyone should be able to keep up . 
Every region should be able to keep up and everyone must be able to take part in the knowledge - based society . 
More so than in the past , Europe will need to be able to draw on the realities of these regions so that their strengths can be applied in the best possible way for creative purposes and for a more realistic employment policy . 
We have had to establish that , despite the many investments being made in structural funds , the unemployment figures still vary greatly . 
I would therefore advocate networking regions , more so than a Europe in which each Member State stands on its own dignity . 
Mr President , Mr Guterres , Mr Prodi , ladies and gentlemen , it is pleasing to hear the Commission and the Portuguese Presidency declaring full employment to be an aim of European policy . 
I agree that this should be so , but to be successful in the future a model of full employment requires , above all , professional and socially secure jobs . 
We need to structure the economy and the world of work in such a way that gainful employment becomes worthwhile . 
You are relying mainly on further deregulation in the internal market , on the Internet revolution and on e - commerce and e - business to be job machines . 
This policy will not allow you to keep your promise of full employment . 
Economic reforms such as the liberalisation of the internal energy market have led to stiff competition and numerous mergers . 
This has cost jobs and the trend is continuing . 
As early as the mid - nineties , Mr Bangemann promised a huge increase in jobs due to the information society . 
The result is sobering . 
The growth in media , mobile radio communication and software was not able to compensate for the job losses in the telecommunications sector and in the electronics industry , and for the rationalisation resulting from the introduction of information technology in other sectors of the economy . 
When I see that many companies engaged in e - commerce admittedly have huge market capitalisation , but that their actual business is constantly making losses , this does not necessarily make me feel any more optimistic . 
E - commerce and e - business certainly have a great future . 
But their contribution to employment growth is overstated almost religiously by their proponents . 
That is why I believe that we need a different policy mix for a new policy of full employment . 
That means , firstly , greater easing of monetary policy , a budgetary policy designed to strengthen investment in expansion and in the future , and a wages policy geared to productivity , so as to stimulate internal European demand and generate more jobs . 
Secondly , it means a strategy to make drastic cuts in working time and redistribute work between men and women . 
Thirdly , it means more state support for employment in ecologically sound sectors of the economy and a suitably future - oriented innovation policy linked in particular to boosting small and medium - sized enterprises . 
Fourthly , this is about an emancipatory labour market policy . 
This entails rejecting low - wage - sector strategies and work requirement models for unskilled jobs , because only a broad - based training initiative will allow us to produce a sufficient pool of qualified workers for the knowledge society , and to deliver environmentally efficient , social and cultural services . 
If we do not go down this path then we will undermine our future prosperity , our competitiveness , our economic productivity and the social cohesion of society . 
Mr President , the European leaders will be primarily addressing three key issues when they meet in Portugal later this month . 
Firstly , they will examine how best the European Union should equip itself to accommodate the broader effects of trade globalisation . 
Secondly , a closer examination will take place as to what initiatives should be implemented to avoid and combat social exclusion in our society . 
Thirdly , the leaders will bring forward new programmes to guarantee that the European Union is a leader across all elements of the changing and evolving information technology markets . 
The world is becoming a smaller place in terms of market access and the term " global village " is not out of place . 
However , the arrival of globalisation will not and must not mean absolute and free market access for all products and services operating at this time . 
It is clear that each country has different priorities in terms of the different economic sectors it wishes to protect . 
That is clear from the completed Uruguay Round of GATT negotiations and will be evident in the World Trade Organisation talks which will be taking place over the next three years . 
From the perspective of the European Union it is important that the deal secured by our leaders in Berlin last year , and endorsed by Parliament in terms of the future administration of the CAP for the period 2000 - 2006 , is not reopened in any shape or form . 
Moreover , initiatives to promote cultural and linguistic diversity in Europe must continue to receive support . 
We must not build a Europe of the haves and the have - nots . 
The European Union as an economic entity is very strong but there are still large - scale social problems which need to be addressed in a structured manner . 
We must continue to put in place comprehensive training programmes for the youth and long - term unemployed in both urban and rural areas within Europe . 
The European Social Fund and national governments must continue to finance drug rehabilitation programmes , to promote higher standards of adult literacy and to work against early school - leaving . 
Mr President , a well - functioning labour market which strikes a sustainable balance between supply and demand is a widely cherished desire . 
It is therefore understandable that long - term , high unemployment within the European Union is high on the agenda of the European Summit in Lisbon . 
But it is questionable whether it is justified to elevate employment policy to European policy in this way . 
Despite satisfactory economic growth , the drop in unemployment is stagnating . 
A number of Member States with high economic growth are facing an overstrained labour market and rising inflation . 
Other Member States are experiencing limited growth , widespread unemployment and fixed prices . 
Specific instruments , such as interest rates and the exchange rate , are no longer at our disposal . 
The fact that Member States are at different stages within the economic cycle nonetheless requires measures specific to each Member State . 
Is the Council acting upon this ? 
And if so , what measures does the Council Presidency have in mind ? 
No one is expecting labour - intensive industries to flourish within an overstrained labour market . 
But is this reflected in the policy ? 
Has a decision been made in favour of selective growth in such policy ? 
And are people prepared to allow the areas suffering high unemployment to benefit from this growth in labour - intensive industries ? 
If the Lisbon Summit is serious about fighting unemployment , then we will need more than generic measures . 
It is important to take the work where unemployment is at its highest . 
It is a gamble to expect that the unemployed will go where the work is , especially in the case of cross - border labour migration . 
This may result in the further depopulation of certain disadvantaged areas . 
Mr President , with the launch of the common currency , we have not made life any easier for ourselves by abandoning monetary , economic instruments specific to Member States in order to control the economic cycle . 
I can imagine that Great Britain , Sweden and Denmark will think twice before embarking on the euro adventure . 
It is therefore essential to reach sound , sustainable agreements at the employment summit in order to stamp out the evil of unemployment , obviously taking into account the principle of subsidiarity , because at the end of the day , it is in the individual Member States that the problems need to be tackled . 
Mr President , I would like to extend warm thanks to Prime Minister Guterres for his account and the clarity of this account . 
My main question relating to this is , what is actually new ? 
Of course , we have in place macro - economic cooperation , the so - called Cologne process , and we have a process for employment , the Luxembourg process . What will this Summit actually add to this ? 
What is new , of course , is social protection . 
This , in fact , has hardly been dealt with at Summit level and is , in my opinion , a very important topic of discussion . 
I think that it is easy to identify the lessons which can be drawn from the Luxembourg process and to declare them applicable to social protection . 
I do wonder why public health cannot be mentioned in this respect . 
It is , after all , a key element of social protection which is rather in crisis and which , in fact , costs a great deal of money and is essential to a great number of people . However , apparently , the Council is not ready to discuss it at this stage . 
Mr Barón has caused me some concern by saying that the programme which your are presenting , Mr President , is in fact a socio - democratic programme . 
I went over your speech again in my mind and I think , in actual fact , that it contained one point which had a strong socio - economic bias . It was the point in which the macro - economy is arranged such that it will lead to employment . 
It is , of course , a fact that a sound macro - economic policy will automatically result in an improvement in the employment situation . 
We have experienced this . But on the other hand , the sound rule of macro - economics should not be misused by pinning it down too much . 
Indeed , you will then end up in a situation which a great many economies under socio - economic and socio - democratic rule have experienced - and are still experiencing - where eventually , employment becomes the victim of bad macro - economic policy . 
This should not happen . 
I do hope , therefore , that the Prime Minister does not suggest abolishing the macro - economic policy which we have pursued over the past couple of years and which has been very successful - or at least changing it such that it is no longer effective . 
Finally , Mr President , I have a problem with the Portuguese Presidency ' s documents and also to some extent , but less so , with the Commission ' s documents . 
It is their defensive nature . 
We have a few countries in Europe , including Denmark , the Netherlands and Ireland , which rivalled the United States in terms of sound performance in the field of employment . 
So it is possible for Europeans to match this . 
There are other countries which appeared far less capable of doing this . 
It is then far more sensible to find out why some countries or regions are doing so very badly , rather than saying that we are underperforming compared to the United States . 
I think that , overall , this is not the case at all , especially if we take into account the fact that the internal market has only been in operation since 1 January 1993 , which is a relatively short time . 
Mr President , I should like to thank Prime Minister Guterres for his very committed speech . 
I too regard globalisation and the rapid changes that are under way as the major challenges , and I also think that they will only succeed if the people of the countries concerned are involved . 
I was therefore very pleased with the Commission ' s document for the Lisbon Summit with its two main messages . 
The first of these - I am tempted to say - is the usual stuff about the economy , but the second , and rather more important , is that we should reinforce the European social model by investing in people . 
The main message is that the individual should be at the centre of the EU ' s policies . 
I completely agree with this main message and I also agree with what was said about social cohesion , but I should like to warn against the idea that cohesion of that kind can be created by riding roughshod over the individual countries in an attempt to create uniformity . 
We have our own approach in Denmark , as Jens - Peter Bonde emphasised , and other countries have theirs , as has also been mentioned . 
What is crucial is that the individual Member States and the EU should respect the fact that there can be different methods of solving the problems concerned . 
I therefore hope that , in future , matters will not be negotiated in such a way that Denmark will be forced to use its veto in connection with the intergovernmental conference and discussion of the social systems . I hope , rather , that we shall have negotiations in which each country is accorded equal status and thus arrive at results we call all support . 
Another reason why I am saying this is that we ought to have something on the agenda in addition to comparisons with the United States . 
We must never for a moment forget that our greatest task in Europe is a healing one . By that I mean we must not lose sight of the development perspective . 
I want to end by saying that social cohesion is to be created both in the individual countries and in Europe as a whole , but that this will not be achieved if the individual countries do not continue to be cohesive within themselves for many years to come . 
