Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I am particularly concerned about the information and knowledge society which is supposed to be promoted during the Portuguese Presidency . 
Anyone who , at a time of mergers and rationalisation , wheels out the jobs argument to legitimise new technology needs above all to be clear about one thing : a just distribution of all the forms of work necessary to society can never be brought about by new technology alone . 
To achieve that , we first need an initiative to redistribute work by radically cutting working time and sharing out the work of reproduction differently . 
These proposals are not new but they are becoming more topical . 
Why ? 
Because so far the debate on the information society has completely ignored the fact that only an elite with good technical training benefits from it ! 
To prevent a repeat of the promise of prosperity for all thanks to technology , but without any change to social structures , we need a debate on power and the distribution of resources . 
Or have industrialisation , nuclear power and biotechnology led to greater justice in the past ? 
One important point is unfortunately missing completely from the debate , despite the fact that this House is otherwise so fond of consumer protection and mentions it so often . 
The right to data protection does not appear in the Euro Paper nor is it part of the current debate on e - commerce . 
I wonder what has happened to it ! 
Or has the evidence recently supplied of the ' Echelon ' global bugging system already been forgotten ? 
If we wish to remain credible in developing a European Charter of Fundamental Rights then the fundamental right to privacy must of course be included in each of our individual programmes , in particular where new technologies are concerned . 
Mr President , I think it is extremely commendable that the Portuguese programme places such emphasis upon combating unemployment and that the objective is to banish all unemployment . 
Nonetheless , there remains an imbalance in the programme about which I am concerned and which I want to talk about . 
The emphasis upon the knowledge - or information - society in this programme , as in the different national programmes of which we are aware , does in fact lead to a concentration upon innovators , entrepreneurs , new companies and new industries . 
Education is to be put in order , a fiscal policy devised and venture capital arranged . 
In fact , everything possible is to be done to provide the innovators with everything on a plate . 
My own experience of these industries , however , is that they are managing really rather well . 
In many cases , they have far too much capital , and in many cases they are spoiled . 
I have seen IT companies which are unbelievably spoiled . 
I think that resources should instead be invested in trying to prevent a split in society , a division of society into two sectors : the new economy and the old . 
Above all , integration mechanisms should be created . 
Perhaps what is most important of all is to create an infrastructure of such a kind that the industries which are not undergoing expansion have the chance to keep up and that population groups on the periphery can be involved . 
I therefore think there should be investment in computers for primary schools , broadband communications for sparsely populated areas , technology libraries for the public and a public sector which should not be impoverished but , rather , reinforced . 
Mr President , the agenda for the Lisbon Council , which is to be held on 23 and 24 Match , is liable to induce dizziness . 
One sees references , albeit only in chapter headings , to the Europe of innovation and knowledge , structural reforms , competitiveness , the European social model , employment , social cohesion , macroeconomic policies and sustainable growth . 
It is not surprising , given all this , that the numerous contributions made by the presidency of the Commission and by the Member States tend , for the moment , to be spread too thin . 
This exercise could end in one of two quite different ways - either enabling the vast exchange of stimulating ideas , which each party would then attempt to apply at national level , with the possibility of joint initiatives in the new field of electronic trade - and this would not , at the end of the day , be such a bad scenario - or with the Council setting its heart on parading results in terms of the transfer of skills to Europe , which would entail increased centralisation and bureaucracy , which is to say exactly the opposite of what is required . 
Reading the preparatory documents gives rise to certain fears in this regard . 
These documents state that - please excuse the jargon , but it is not of my own making - there must be greater convergence between the Cologne process on the coordination of macroeconomic policies , the Cardiff process on structural reforms and the Luxembourg process on the coordination of employment policies , and a collateral enrichment of the content of the employment pact and of the multilateral monitoring of budgetary policies . 
But how can we guarantee greater convergence of all these vastly different processes ? 
The conclusion of the document issued by the presidency on 12 January holds the key . 
We must revise the broad guidelines of our economic policies - which at present only have the status of an annual recommendation from the Council to the Member States - with a view to amplifying their scope and above all , consolidating their status as a ' framework document '  . 
It would appear that here one should take the word ' framework ' as having the dual meaning of ' synthesis ' and ' obligation '  . 
Mr President , are we not , with these blanket documents , going down the path of reinventing the broad strategic guidelines ? 
One may well wonder , particularly after reading the French contribution , which crowns them with interventionism , proposing that a whole range of national policies be coordinated in Brussels , such as those on employment , social protection and SMEs , and accompanying them with a vast array of statistical indicators , for which monitoring will have to be arranged . 
Centralised guidance of this nature would result in further infringements of subsidiarity , increased standardisation of details , and a more restrictive coordination imposed on countries whose circumstances differ , which is to say , eventually , in new inflexibilities which would exacerbate the inelasticity of the single currency . 
In our opinion , the aim of the Lisbon Council should in fact be to iron out these inflexibilities , to promote flexibility and the ability to adjust , and to exchange positive national experiences with a view to fostering the creativity that can only flourish when peoples are given freedom of choice . 
Mr President , Mr President - in - Office , ladies and gentlemen , in the speeches which we have heard a noble aim has been mentioned , that of we Europeans becoming competitive with the United States , of developing ourselves into equal partners with the United States . 
If we consider our gross national product , that ought actually to be possible . 
If , on the other hand , we look , for example , at the issue of filling top posts - when it is a question of finding a new Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund - and see how the Europeans behave towards the Americans , then without a doubt we are still a very long way from this equal partnership . 
We now need to ask ourselves why this is the case . 
Of course there are sectors of the business world , including the new media , in which we occupy leading positions . 
Here I need only mention mobile telephones . 
We have banned them here in the Chamber , rightly , because they are instruments of torment . 
At the same time , however , they also make life much easier for many people because they create jobs . 
And in Europe we are world leaders in this field . 
Why ? 
We are world leaders because we managed to adopt a common set of European rules ; early on we decided on a common European standard which today has become a world standard . 
This means that if we in Europe get our act together in good time then we will also be competitive in this field of new technologies . 
Where then do Europe ' s shortcomings actually lie ? 
I believe , Mr President - in - Office , that we cannot eliminate the shortcomings by setting up more observatories as is planned at present . 
I believe that these observatories create a handful of jobs for officials , but that they do not create any jobs in small and medium - sized enterprises . 
We in Europe are deficient where training is concerned . 
This is shown by the fact that where the new media are concerned we are having to import from countries outside Europe . 
Europe lacks , as has already been stated , entrepreneurs and entrepreneurial spirit . 
There are too few young people who are willing to take the risk of being self - employed . 
The way in which we structure our work and the way in which work is organised is not flexible enough . 
Establishing additional rigid rules - such as , for example , introducing a rigid 35 - hour week in France - can , I admit , create jobs in the short term , but I am convinced that in the long term it damages our competitiveness and thus destroys jobs . 
In Europe we are also still a long way from a common domestic market . 
We have 15 domestic markets and a common European internal market . 
For electronic commerce we need common , clear , European rules . 
We need a European patent at a reasonable price ; we do not have that yet either . 
This European patent is so expensive that it is not competitive with other patents . 
We need the European company legislation , and not least we need to adapt our social security systems to the new reality of a common Europe , because this too forms the basis of what we call the social model , namely a social market economy for Europe . 
Mr President , I should like to thank Mr Gutíerrez for his speech tonight and also for his Lisbon initiative , which is very important to us . 
If we are honest , we must admit that it has been a very long road from Luxembourg to Lisbon , and that really now we are looking for concrete achievements , for something to genuinely come out of this Lisbon Summit . 
We have a lot of Europeans in the gallery here with us this evening and I wonder what they make of our discussion here this evening . 
I would like them to take away with them this evening the idea that the institutions of the European Union are now embarked upon a genuine process , which will lead to full employment once again in the European Union . 
There are many challenges involved with creating that full employment . 
Some of those challenges will be very difficult to overcome , but the important thing is that we have to turn the rhetoric of what we have been saying for many , many years - about full employment , about a socially inclusive society , about a society that is based on innovation and knowledge - into reality . 
This is the great challenge , the great importance of Lisbon . 
I just want to dwell on one or two key aspects that will help us realise that goal of turning rhetoric into reality . 
Firstly , there is the commitment to having genuine benchmarks , a genuine process of peer review , to the setting of targets , of genuine targets that we can achieve , to governments agreeing to embark upon what is quite a brave process of saying :  ' yes , we will allow ourselves to be marked against each other , we will allow ourselves to be marked against the rest of the world '  . 
That really is a brave decision , because some Member States will clearly find themselves towards the bottom of the league table , which is something nobody likes . 
But this is important if we are to have a genuine achievable outcome from this Lisbon Summit rather than perhaps setting off down another road - a road which I know Prime Minister Gutíerrez does not want to embark on , because he actually wants to see something achieved in the process of the Lisbon Summit . 
There are other areas that we must look at . 
One of these is the challenge of creating an e - Europe which involves all its citizens and does not leave anybody on the wayside . 
Another is the process of actually having a genuine single market - which we still do not yet have - and skills training that will be the key to delivering that innovative and knowledge - driven society . 
There are tough choices , but once again in the gallery here tonight , I would like those people listening to this debate to take away with them the belief that we are going to actually have a society based on full employment , that the road to Lisbon will be the end of our journey , and that some concrete results will actually come out of it . 
I welcome the new strategic goal of making Europe the most dynamic and competitive area . 
Who could challenge such an ambition ? 
I have to say , however , that dynamism and entrepreneurship as well as social cohesion are a very ambitious target , not to mention the creative tension between those two objectives . 
I hope that we will achieve them , but I sound a warning note . 
I note another ambitious objective of playing a proactive role in organising cyberspace . 
I cannot help thinking this is more a case of closing the stable door after the horse has bolted ! 
I welcome the emphasis on bolstering research and development in Europe , on developing content industries and on speeding up broad - band networks with all that is involved as part of working towards a knowledge society . 
Actually , I would prefer to call it an information economy because it is the economy aspect which is the most important . 
We live in the time of IDEA - the Internet digital electronic age . 
That sums up what we are trying to achieve on the e - side , the electronic side , of life . 
But I welcome the fact that this summit is aiming also at a wider emphasis on reforms of our economies in Europe to improve competitiveness and innovation . 
That must be right . 
We cannot just focus on the new economy . 
We must pay attention to the old . 
I look forward to hearing more detail about the European Charter for micro - enterprises - that should be very interesting when it comes forward . 
One of the priorities which has been identified under the Cardiff process is to improve the sensitivity of the financial markets to the value of intangible investments and investments in knowledge . 
That has been achieved possibly beyond the wildest dreams of people a few months ago . 
It can be seen in the phenomenal growth in the stock markets of Europe in the value of dot . com companies and just recently in the major changes in the composition of the FTSE 100 index in London . 
I cannot help thinking however that although these values have gone sky high and we may expect the bubble to burst , nevertheless the underlying structural change in our economies is here to stay . 
Mr President - in - Office , you have made us in the European Parliament eager to leave for Lisbon already . 
All of us can only hope that the Special Summit is able to live up to the high expectations which people have of it . 
Because , as you have already stressed , we do not need one more process after another , one procedure after another ; rather we need action by which the people of the European Union can measure the benefits and added value of what the European Union does . 
That is also why you have rightly drawn together employment , economic reform , growth and social cohesion and made them issues for top - level action . 
It is important for all players in the governments and in the Commission to be pulling in the same direction towards full employment . 
Then it will also be possible to convince all economic policy - makers of the need to conform to agreed behaviour , which so far they unfortunately still have not yet done . 
Europe need lament neither over the success of the US economy nor over the strong dollar if it does not learn any lessons for itself from it . 
Reforms of financial services , services capital and labour markets are certainly useful and necessary . 
But they alone will not give growth the stimulus it needs to enable long - lasting growth , effectively generating jobs , to be organised at a high level . 
We were forced to experience this several times in the nineties . 
An average productivity increase of 2 % requires a growth rate of 3 . 5 % for full employment to be able to be achieved within ten years . 
This scenario has moved into the foreseeable future . 
That is why full employment actually needs to be right at the top of the agenda . 
We need to set a growth target of at least 3 % . 
The aim of full employment cannot be achieved by economic policy alone . 
The Europe of innovation and the information society also need to be commandeered to reach this target . 
We are a long way from it today . 
We must also recognise that we need another type of economic and financial policy . 
It is simply unacceptable for shareholders or directors of plcs to be the only ones who decide on jobs , the economy and share prices . 
When 13 - year - old school children play on the computer after school at restructuring their parents ' share portfolios , then this has more to do with toy casinos than with responsibility . 
I think that the Special Summit in Lisbon will herald responsible economic planning in the European Union . 
Mr President , Prime Minister , President of the Commission , the Portuguese Presidency has presented an ambitious programme for the Special Summit . 
Congratulations ! 
I also welcome the support which Portugal is receiving from the Commission , not least through the communication which seeks to develop the Community into an information society for everyone . 
The comment made by the Christian Democrat Prime Minister , Jean Claude Juncker , at the employment summit in Luxembourg in 1997 also applies to the Lisbon Summit . He said that it must not be a literary convention , referring to the numerous non - binding declarations made at many summits . 
In adopting the Luxembourg Process the Heads of State and Government achieved tangible successes . 
Since 1997 , however , the really significant results have failed to materialise . 
So far , the Cologne Employment Pact has not been able to be invested with sufficient content . 
In addition , the macroeconomic dialogue lacks the participation of the European Parliament as an equal partner . 
Yes , some aspects of the Luxembourg employment policy guidelines have not been applied rigorously enough by the Member States , in particular , for example , in the field of lifelong learning , as the 1999 Joint Employment Report noted . 
In information technology , in particular , some European countries lack qualified workers , as Mr Suominen emphasised . 
Rather than ' importing ' them from third countries , it is better to invest accordingly in vocational training and further education , to invest in human capital . 
This is the most effective way of reducing unemployment . 
The most important objective of the Summit must be achieved as quickly as possible , and that is to improve the competitiveness of the European economy . 
In this context the Ciampi Group also mentions the European company statute . 
It puts the loss to the economy of not having a statute of this kind at EUR 30 billion a year . 
We do not want the basic unrefined European company model . 
We need this European company to come supplied with minimum standards of worker participation . 
Our social policy goal is not of course the basic unrefined model of the market economy either , but a social market economy built on the European model . 
We should also judge the success of the Lisbon Summit on the contribution it makes to achieving this goal . 
Mr President - in - Office of the Council , do you know how Archimedes expounded his theory of the lever ? 
He would say ,  ' Give me a fulcrum and I will lift the world . ' 
In Lisbon you will clearly be trying to lift the world or , in any case , our world , the world of Europe . 
As for the lever , you have described all the appropriate mechanisms in your exhilarating proposal , which is exciting in so many respects . 
That simply leaves the fulcrum . 
The fulcrum is provided by resources . 
You find yourself before a House some of whose Members can still remember what I will refer to as the ' White Paper ' syndrome , which is to say the remarkable initiative instigated by Jacques Delors that was torn to shreds by the ' accountants ' at ECOFIN . 
We would not want the same misfortune to befall you now , as the programme that you have presented to us is so exhilarating that it could energise Europe and provide it with the future alluded to by Mr Goebbels . 
Nevertheless , you will have to have the means at your disposal , means which , I fear , you are somewhat lacking at present . 
It is thus up to you to create them . The straitjacket of Agenda 2000 will not provide you with the requisite means . 
You will thus have to encourage your colleagues to see to it that the proposals you make to us are going to be financed . 
Just one example - and it is one of the mechanisms central to your proposals - is that of the information and knowledge society . 
It is clear - and you explained this very well - that the social divide is a fundamental problem that we must eradicate . 
There is no need to add to this what I will call the digital divide . 
Indeed , to whom will you offer this information and knowledge society ? 
To an increasingly aged or ageing population , to a population which , despite everything , is still poor , and to a population which is becoming , alas , less and less well educated . 
You will thus have to adopt a bottom - up approach if you do not want this knowledge society to amount to little more than the pursuit of profits by a number of successful and necessary new firms . 
This is not your objective . 
Unfortunately , there is one component missing from the mechanism that you have envisaged . 
I refer to the public services . The public services have played a key role throughout the entire existence of our European social model . 
It is true that the era of monopolies is past and that the Commission has initiated a process of liberalisation , of introducing competition into some public sectors in order to modernise them and improve their efficiency . 
But we cannot stop there . 
We must now define more clearly , within the context of competition and the information society , the principal public service roles of tomorrow as applicable to public undertakings and to private companies in this sector . 
What is needed , in this regard , are stronger measures , which do not yet feature in the Commission ' s work programme , but to which you could give some impetus . This , it seems to me , would send out an extremely important signal . 
Lastly , this knowledge society hinges on research and development and I would like to applaud , at this juncture , the Commission initiative that aims to create a European research area . 
Mr President , the Commission and Parliament will nevertheless have need of the Council in order to secure the requisite resources to create this European research area . 
The framework programme will not suffice , it will have to be boosted , and its broad guidelines modified . 
This is a major task , but we are relying on you to see it through . 
Mr President , Mr President - in - Office of the Council , Mr President of the Commission , you have spoken , Mr President , of a political deficit . 
I believe that the proposals you will put forward in Lisbon , which should help to merge these infamous broad economic policy guidelines , these ' Employment ' guidelines , to form guidelines for the European policy on growth and employment , mark a step in the right direction . 
They are a tool for political decision making . 
And yet they incorporate institutional measures whose influence we will be able to assess in the medium term . 
They will bolster the role of the European Council in the decision - making process . 
What we are doing here has certain implications . 
Let us assess its impact on the set of decisions that we will take when we have to discuss the reform of the General Affairs Council . 
And then , underlying this decision - making process at European level , there is another crusade to be fought , and one which each of us must embark upon within our own Member States , since it is pointless laying down fine policy guidelines if the budgetary discussions that we enter into within our Member States fail to accommodate these guidelines . 
It is up to each and every one of us to work on this . 
One can but welcome the ambitious objective which you have set , within the ten - year strategy you propose , of lifting the taboo on the notion of full employment in the European Union , and of providing us with the means to do so by setting a quantified target of 3 % growth . 
But over and above that , as regards your objective of a knowledge economy , Claude Desama has just spoken of the contribution that public services can make to attaining this objective , although I myself would stress the importance of a strategy for lifelong learning . 
This calls for hard and fast objectives , but we are aware that these will not be attainable unless we base our proposals on genuine social dialogue , and I feel that we must also move forward in this respect . 
Lastly , a final word on social cohesion . 
I am pleased to hear you stress this , since we do not want a society which swaps innovation for social cohesion . 
But we do not feel that social exclusion can be eradicated in a piecemeal fashion . 
It is a global project , and while the notion of target groups may constitute a staging point , it cannot provide a solution to all our problems in terms of poverty and social exclusion . 
We know that this requires a proactive approach and that we can count on your determination . 
We will offer you our support in Lisbon in laying down new guidelines for the European Union ' s economic policy . 
Mr President , along with my colleagues , I would like to welcome the very clear document that the Portuguese Presidency has given us today . 
I want to emphasise what I believe is the real challenge which will face you and your colleagues when you sit down at the end of this month to discuss the presidency ' s proposal : namely how to change our whole attitude and thinking about entrepreneurship , about encouraging people to go out and start the new businesses that we now acknowledge are the engines of the new economy . 
It is sad for Europe that it has actually needed the stimulus of the " knowledge economy " to realise what has been clear for the last decade or more , that our economy is not adequately geared towards encouraging those small entrepreneurs to come into the market , to take the risk to set up new businesses . 
But it is not just the risk - takers who need to be encouraged . 
It is everybody who is in a job working in an organisation . 
In the new economy we want to give those people the opportunities to start businesses themselves ; to go and work for the new growing businesses ; to have more control over their working lives ; to truly achieve their potential . 
Think how many people are working in large companies , not using all their skills , trapped in large organisations , worried about moving because they cannot take their pensions with them , concerned not least about unemployment . 
One of the keys to mobilising this type of risk - taking is to move towards such full employment that people feel they can take that personal risk . 
However , I would conclude by asking : which is going to come first ? 
Can we really achieve that full employment without unleashing that entrepreneurial talent ? 
If we wait for that to happen , I fear the great objectives you have set before us will not be achieved . 
Mr President , Mr President - in - Office of the Council , it is , I think , thanks to your and the Commission ' s commitment that the Lisbon Summit can finally prove to be an ambitious and social summit where the European social model is at long last seen as a new driving force behind European integration and where full employment can become a concrete goal . 
But if Lisbon wants to become the summit of these political ambitions , it must also take on board methodology . 
I would like to draw your attention to three points , in particular , which seem essential to me if this summit wants to succeed as a major social summit . 
Firstly , the method should be such that the employment strategy and the new coordination procedure for social security do not become subservient to a macro - economic policy whose only aim is stability . 
To me , Mr President - in - Office , this is a clear message that the Social Affairs Council must have as much clout as the ECOFIN Council and that political power must remain in the hands of the European Council itself . 
Secondly , I would very much like to second your commitment to lay down clear objectives , regarding both economic growth and the level of employment . 
But I would like to add that , if Lisbon wants to become a real social summit , we must also be able to spell out our plans to modernise and reinforce social security . 
Here , too , we need standards of excellence and a Luxembourg process . 
Finally , I support the European Commission ' s intent to formulate an ambitious European poverty standard and to drastically reduce poverty within a ten - year period . 
I think it is important to formulate an objective in this respect , Mr President - in - Office , that is to say to challenge all Member States to stamp out social exclusion of all citizens in our society , not only children , but also their parents and the elderly . 
I wish the President - in - Office all the best in the pursuit of his ambitions . 
Mr President , Mr President - in - Office of the Council , Mr President of the Commission , the Special European Council in Lisbon on employment , economic reform and social cohesion is to pursue , as you have told us , an objective which is ambitious , very ambitious , at the risk of disappointing our fellow citizens , conscious as they are that decreeing full employment and the eradication of poverty in Europe cannot , in itself , ensure that this objective is attained . 
But , when all is said and done , this summit will have a major benefit - that of outlining , in the wake of Cardiff and Luxembourg , a political desire for greater social cohesion , particularly as regards the 57 million people who are living in a state of poverty within the Union , including single mothers , large families and children , and whose numbers will in the future be swelled by other outcasts from society , specifically those people who will not have access to new areas of knowledge , since this will engender new social imbalances . 
It would thus be appropriate to implement an economic and social policy which is firmly geared towards the future , in order to prevent the emergence of a digital gulf between the ' info - rich ' and the ' info - poor '  , which is to say , as one speaker has just put it , a digital divide . 
It is for this reason that , while I feel that new technologies constitute a tremendous vector for socially - inclusive growth , they will only be so if they are taught from an early age , in that by 2010 fifty per cent of all jobs will be in sectors directly linked to information technologies . 
I recommend that Lisbon Summit take three decisions in this regard : firstly , on a strategy for lifelong learning , with the establishing of an agenda for eradicating child poverty , both financial and intellectual impoverishment ; secondly , on preparing European society for the European research area ; thirdly , on implementing a working methodology and coordination procedure which is open and based on our social and economic policies , and is accompanied by concerted assessment of our national plans . 
Mr President , there is an idea in the Portuguese Presidency ' s statement which I like very much . 
This idea is the notion that the strength of our European economy is rooted in the capabilities , imagination and creativity - quite simply in the knowledge - of the people in the European economic process . 
If we are to take this seriously , however , if the intention is for this really to become a political programme , then no additional justification is required for a policy of social inclusion , because participation in society would in itself be the strongest productive force in our shared economy . 
If that is the case , Mr President - in - Office , then we urgently need common objectives . 
We need firm targets , the attainment of which it is possible to measure , in terms of both quality and quantity , for increasing employment rates , as for example was also recently proposed by the Commission . 
We need firm , joint , realistic targets for reducing the unemployment rate , as for example was also recently proposed by the Commission , to 4 % in 2010 . 
No longer must it be acceptable for the ECOFIN ministers to allow each other to celebrate consolidation successes at home while responsibility for the massive unemployment in Europe remains shrouded in mystery . 
I wish you much strength , pledge Parliament ' s support and assure you that this Parliament will have more to say on the issues of economic and employment policy in the future , as the people of Europe also expect . 
That would give you another ally for your policy . 
Mr President - in - Office of the Council , Mr President of the Commission , it is gratifying and encouraging to hear this House speak of a new strategic objective for the next decade . 
This objective consists of creating a European Union which , on the world stage , forms a more dynamic and competitive economic and social area , based on new technologies , innovation and knowledge , so that we are capable of increasing levels of economic growth , with more , and better , jobs and greater social cohesion . 
It is clear that we must redefine the role of Europe in the world economy , creating a competitive Europe , opening the way to new and better jobs and organising this process with an appropriate strategy for social cohesion . 
The central role of employment and social policy , in the creation of this new society , is based on two factors . 
On the one hand we have economic efficiency , since , in this new technological context , the quality of human resources is essential . 
On the other hand , we have social equality , because , despite the economic upturn which we are witnessing , we still have an enormous degree of social inequality . 
Unemployment , social exclusion and the danger of future imbalance in the social security systems , are problems which are exacerbated by the unavoidable challenges of globalisation , an ageing population , technological changes , demographic slowdown and the increasing incorporation of women in the workplace . 
Europe needs to achieve full employment . 
This full employment should be adapted to the society taking shape , with greater possibilities for its men and women . 
European citizens must believe in this project and this state of affairs . They must not see it as something abstract which we only speak about in Brussels or Strasbourg . 
We are asking right now for a transition to a new society , to an economy based on innovation , and on the information and knowledge - based society . 
We must learn quickly , create new practices more suited to the new society and invest in technological change , but we must never forget the people or the institutions . 
Lisbon will be a step forward and we must achieve a renewal of the European social model because that is the only way we can achieve greater employment and , at the same time , greater social cohesion . To this end , we must concentrate on a series of priority issues . 
We must improve the effectiveness of active employment policies . 
We must strengthen the synergies between adaptability , education and lifelong training . We must increase employment in the sector consisting of services which facilitate business initiative and reduce the administrative burden on small - and medium - sized enterprises , reducing non - wage costs . 
Lastly , we have to promote the integration of general equal opportunities policies for all men and women , with particular stress on aspects which help to reconcile professional life with family life . 
All of this has to be done thinking of the European citizen . It has to be done thinking of the men and women who live and work daily in our countries . 
The Special Lisbon Summit must fundamentally reaffirm , for the European citizen , the notion that the European Union still believes in the idea of a society which favours inclusion and social cohesion . 
