Mr President , the Portuguese Presidency should be praised for focusing the debate on issues which although not new , are being addressed in an innovative way , with ambitious objectives , beginning with the urgent need to face up to the competition , which is marked by constant technological innovation and democratisation . 
In doing this , we must be aware that the technological development of the United States has come about because of extremely dynamic private initiatives , as well as because of their arms industry and a certain degree of protectionism . 
We must also look at the case of Japan because it holds lessons for Europe in terms of the organisation of work and the role of the state , of businesses and of the workers themselves in business objectives . 
We must take what is useful from these two models , such as entrepreneurial skills and the organisation of work , whilst preserving the best of what Europe has to offer in the form of a social model appropriate for a post - industrial economy . 
The fact is that Europe needs to have 32 million more people in work if it is to match the United States ' employment rate . 
It needs to increase employment amongst women , to integrate marginalised groups , to strengthen social cohesion , a problem that the Structural Funds have so far not been able to resolve , and to integrate 5 million very long - term unemployed , many of whom lost their jobs as a result of industrial restructuring . 
We also need new qualifications , as we know that access to technology does not necessarily guarantee high - quality jobs and entrepreneurial initiative . 
We need a greater sense of responsibility and greater participation from our social partners - new actors , as the Pintassilgo report calls them - so that we can implement employment agreements and achieve competitiveness in business . 
We need to solve the problems of poverty and we need a social model which is suited to these new conditions . 
Mr President - in - Office , your proposal is a very ambitious one , although we know that its implementation does not depend on you , but on the 15 Member States . 
If I may refer to the Austrian situation , I would very much like that country to be one of the states which will be putting your proposal into practice . 
If Austria does this , however , it will be lying to and duping the very people who voted for one of the parties in its government . 
I hope that it does just that ! 
Mr President - in - Office of the Council , Mr President of the Commission , we often hear it said by our neighbours , at all levels of expertise or debate , that we live in a globalised world . 
However , it is not so common to hear people speak of what Europe ' s role should be in this context of the information society , globalisation and technology . 
It seems to me , Mr President , that this is probably the case because we Europeans see Europe as somewhat removed from our more immediate concerns and interests . 
The prime concern of the European citizens , after health , is probably employment . 
Within this concern , employment is linked to competitiveness . 
All of this will lead us to the need to define the role of Europe in the world economy , of Europe as a competitive platform - and I stress ' competitive '  - opening the way to new and better jobs , higher quality jobs from the point of view , of course , of guaranteeing social cohesion . 
Social risks , social breakdown , unemployment , social exclusion , imbalances in the social security systems , are unavoidable challenges presented by globalisation , technological change and an ageing population . 
We therefore have to re - establish conditions of full employment , employment adapted to the society which is taking shape , which we are all building . 
This requires the creation of a dynamic of growth which guarantees , for the whole of the European Union , an average annual rate of growth of 3 % at least . 
I therefore think it is necessary to stimulate a culture of dynamism and business initiative and a strengthening of social cohesion . 
All of this is absolutely essential . We need technological change and institutional reform . 
While it is necessary to learn more quickly from good practices , it is also necessary to create suitable new practices and be innovative in the field of political methodology . 
Of course , today ' s Europe has organised institutional procedures for developing these policies , to create an economy , and above all a society , based on innovation and knowledge , by means of a European policy on the information and knowledge - based society , the construction of an educational society on a European scale and the development of a European area of science and technology open to the world . 
Finally , Mr President , we have to guarantee a combination of policies which promote growth and employment , guarantee macroeconomic security and the consolidation of the euro ; which promote growth and the transition towards a society and economy of innovation and knowledge . 
Through policies and structural reform , at the service of the citizens , we will create a Europe which is closer to us and , of course , a Europe which is stronger . 
Mr President , I would like to endorse all compliments for the Portuguese Presidency ' s ambitions with this special summit . 
The intention to achieve actual coordination of the socio - economic policy across the board appeals to me a great deal . 
I would like to draw your attention to three specific points . 
The first point concerns corporate governance . 
The Portuguese Presidency has put the social dimension of innovation very firmly on the agenda , but I think that this dimension is still too far removed from the intentions to promote new activity . 
In my opinion , this social dimension should , in fact , be brought into this new European company , whether this is a large multinational or a small booming ICT company . 
In this light , I would like to reopen the debate on corporate governance to discuss the wider concept of the company as stakeholders society , including the role of both sides of industry and all parties involved . 
On the last page of the president ' s document , I noticed the intention to set up an observatory for industrial change . 
I can foresee a large role for such an observatory and I would , therefore , like to see a pro - active approach to dealing with it , and I would call on UNICE , the organisation of European employers , in particular , to show more commitment and some more enthusiasm . 
It disturbed me that their documents for this summit mainly contain wish lists vis - à - vis the authorities but they do not emphasise their own commitment and their role at all . In my opinion , you do not get something for nothing . 
Their cooperation in these activities should also be outlined . 
Another point which I would like to touch upon briefly is tax coordination , as I do not think I have sufficient time for three points . 
The presidency has mentioned the sensitive issue of company tax and has admitted that there is a considerable impasse in the Monti package regarding this issue . 
I would like to make another appeal for a broad analysis of the developments in the field of company tax , especially vis - à - vis the Commission , and with regard to the Member States , I would like to suggest that such a Luxembourg process be considered because when I read the report , I can see examples of best practices which could be adopted . 
So I would ask that this point be given due attention too . 
Mr President , Mr President - in - Office of the Council , Mr President of the Commission , there has already been a great deal of discussion , and I hope that I will not repeat any of what has gone before . 
I would , however , like to thank the Portuguese Presidency most heartily for the document presented and for the excellent address given by the President - in - Office of the Council . 
As President Guterres reminded us , it is true that we do not intend to introduce new processes in Lisbon , but rather to combine those decided upon in Luxembourg , Cardiff and Cologne . 
However , this is the first time in many years that a strategic objective has been put forward , and I feel that it is extremely important : to transform the Union into an economic area based on innovation and knowledge , in order to boost economic growth , achieve full employment in proper jobs and bring about social cohesion . 
Last year , the Commission carried out a study which revealed that , if we do not make radical changes to the qualification and professional training systems , by the year 2010 , the skills of 80 % of those currently in employment will be outdated , and this will exacerbate existing inequalities and open up new gulfs . The answer is lifelong learning and a large - scale investment in technical skills and knowledge . 
The amount of research - another strategic sector - which is carried out in the Member States of Europe must also increase . We must take a qualitative step forwards and move on from framework programmes to a European research area and a common research policy . 
This is innovation , and not just structural , technological innovation but also innovation in the field of procedures and methods . 
As Mr Van Lancker has already said , the " Social Affairs " Council must have the same status as the ECOFIN Council . 
Social dialogue must then be consolidated as a fundamental means of reaching a consensus on the implementation of the necessary changes . 
Lisbon must be remembered , not only for its excellent preparatory document , but as a Summit which , at the start of the new millennium , will mark a significant turnaround for economic growth , employment and social cohesion in Europe . 
 -  ( PT ) Mr President - in - Office , I would like to congratulate you on having persuaded Europe that the modernisation of the economy and social cohesion are concepts that can be mutually compatible . 
The preparations for the Lisbon Summit have demonstrated that people in Europe are not working hard enough and that if we want to be the most dynamic region in the world , we not only have to work harder , but we will have to do this with more information at our disposal , combined with an ability to use that information . 
If we are to increase the rate of employment and fund our social security systems , we will have to have a longer working life and , above all , we will have to have more and better trained women in work . 
We therefore hope that this Lisbon Summit will help to change the present model of female employment . 
I would like to ask you , Mr President , if you envisage this summit yielding conclusions which will enable specific , timetabled measures to be adopted so that there are not only more women in the world of work , but above all , in the new knowledge economy ? 
Ladies and gentlemen , I am extremely grateful for the excellent and highly pertinent contributions you have made during this debate on the preparation for our Lisbon Special Summit . 
I think that we needed to have this debate and we also needed to involve Parliament , because in my opinion Europe still lacks strategic direction . 
In order to achieve this strategic direction , there must be an institutional alliance which transcends the natural differences of political opinion . 
This alliance has in fact been given form in the excellent contribution that Romano Prodi ' s Commission has just made to the preparations for the Lisbon Summit with their paper . 
The fact that Parliament has a crucial role to play in this is also important . 
At the Lisbon Summit , in addition to agreeing on a strategy , I would like us to define a set of measures and an open form of coordination . Let me give two examples which relate to everything that has been said here about the practical measures I would like to see adopted . 
One is that by 2002 , all of Europe ' s schools and training centres should be connected to the Internet and that they should at the same time have appropriately trained staff to provide the training which young people leaving secondary education need . I also would also like to see everyone receiving professional training , whether they are unemployed or not , to be able to gain a kind of " driving licence " for the information society , which will enable them to operate computers and navigate the Internet . 
If this happens , we will then be providing a framework under which information technology is not a cause of social division , that is to say of a widening in the gulf between those who succeed and those who fail . On the contrary , it will be a major vehicle for integration and for combating social exclusion . 
My second example is this : a great deal has been said about the participation of women in the labour market and about equal opportunities for women and men in society in general . 
Practical measures relating to what I spoke about earlier - a common goal for support services for families and particularly for children - are a key factor in creating jobs and at the same time creating equal opportunities and ensuring much greater participation by women in the labour market . 
We need practical measures like this , but we also need a form of coordination that will enable us , as part of the various approaches that have been referred to here , to ensure that the European institutions and governments adopt joint action programmes and have quantifiable and verifiable instruments to facilitate this coordination . 
Much has been said in today ' s debate about the fundamental concepts of modern life , such as globalisation , the knowledge society and the relationship between the old and new economies . 
All these words and the ideas behind them can apply to both opportunities and threats . 
The challenge before us is to turn threats into opportunities and particularly , to avoid at all costs turning opportunities into threats . 
Obviously , in order to achieve this , there are two issues which are crucial in all areas . 
Firstly , massive investment in people is needed . A key concept which many of you have mentioned here today is the fact that lifelong training and learning are an investment in people and a decisive factor in these trends becoming an opportunity for everyone . 
But in addition to investing in people , public authorities , be they individual Member States , the European Union itself or international authorities , must be equipped with regulatory powers to ensure that business and personal initiatives are compatible with social justice and fairness . 
This certainly holds true for globalisation , which permits greater growth in wealth , international trade and productivity . 
However , unregulated globalisation , which is what we have today , or globalisation in which large sections of the world ' s population do not benefit from significant investment in people , is also a factor in exclusion , in division and in widening the gap between rich and poor . 
This also applies to the knowledge society , which may give rise to a new equality of opportunity , but could also be a factor in the increasing gulf between those who have access to it and those who do not . This also applies to the relationship between the old and new economies . 
This is in fact not the first time that a technological transition has changed the social model and the model of economic organisation . 
At such times of profound change , problems , particularly those concerning employment in the old economy , have been resolved by turning to the new economy and its resources . 
To give an example , in Europe we have a textile industry . 
We must maintain a textile industry in Europe , but this will only happen if we are able to apply the technologies of the information and knowledge society . 
It is quite extraordinary that at the moment , in the so - called " new economy " sectors , there is a shortfall of around 800 000 qualified people for existing posts at the same time that there are millions of people unemployed . 
This means that we have not yet managed to use the resources of the new economy to resolve the problems of the old economy . We will never find solutions to those problems if we approach them with the mindset of that old economy . 
Lastly , I would like to answer a question that I have been asked , which is whether I am speaking here on behalf of 15 or 14 countries . 
The answer is simple : I am speaking on behalf of 15 countries . 
One of the things that the Portuguese Presidency has guaranteed is Austria ' s full participation in the workings of all of the Union ' s institutions . 
This does not prevent the Portuguese Government , and many other European governments , from being not so much in dispute with a particular country , as being engaged in a battle to preserve certain principles and values . 
Strangely enough , these very principles and values existed even before political movements such as the Social Democrats and the Christian Democrats . 
I am talking about principles and values which come from the Enlightenment and which affirm the supremacy of reason . 
Because , if modern societies have one enemy today , it is irrationality in political behaviour . 
We could call this irrationality political populism , or excessive nationalism , or religious fundamentalism , or racism or xenophobia . 
This is a key issue : unless these values are respected , we may have a healthy economy , we may have jobs , but there will be no Europe . 
 , Commission . 
 ( IT ) Mr President , Prime Minister , just a few quick comments to close this debate , which has been lengthy but extremely important and constructive . 
Firstly , we are not starting from scratch . 
Anybody who may think that we have been too optimistic in this debate must understand that we are not starting from scratch . 
Europe has the advantages of the single currency and the single market to build on . 
In Lisbon , we will build on these resources , and consolidate them in the areas in which there is a need , and there are many of them , for the single market is not the only subject which we want to discuss in Lisbon . It is not yet single because of the delays in public and private services ; it is not single because of the delays in achieving transparency and in introducing the use of modern technologies to make the markets fully functional in terms of information technology and , therefore , in terms of efficiency . 
Now then , we have to increase productivity in these areas sufficiently to sustain economic growth without inflation . 
However , we must be careful . 
We may be breaking this debate on Lisbon down into constituent parts , but we have a clear objective constantly in mind : we have to create the economic and social conditions needed for sustained growth . 
We have already mentioned economic conditions - efficiency and productivity . We must also create the social conditions needed to prevent the disintegration of society due to income discrepancies , which is one of the greatest dangers . 
I stress this because it needs to be borne in mind : the income discrepancies in Europe have widened recently . 
This is a problem which will become irresolvable in the future , if it is not already . 
Therefore , our responsibility is both economic and social . 
In Lisbon , we will have to take some practical decisions . 
With regard to this , I would just like to mention a specific point , given that a great many references have been made to the United States . 
In the United States , this new market , this innovation , this dissemination of innovation - and the great difference is that it is a telecommunications innovation which also extends knowledge to the peripheries - emphatically did not come about through private initiative . 
There was a great deal of public investment at Federal , State and local levels . 
These were huge investments , and they were in modern infrastructures . 
I warn you that here our direct , and I stress , direct commitment at public and the other different levels is to build telecommunications highways , the roads for these new vehicles to run on . 
The market , private individuals and companies will build the vehicles , but it is our responsibility to build the new highways . 
With regard to what Mr Guterres has said about Internet access in every school , on the network connecting all the peripheral areas , this is not an obligation which can be left exclusively to the market because , quite simply , the market does not operate like this and , on the other hand , without this we will not attain the new and requisite targets for production development . 
Our problem is therefore that of avoiding a crisis in peripheral economies , which does not mean centralisation , nor a centralised programme , but giving peripheral economies the same chances that we give centralised economies . 
This , therefore , is why the programme must be directed at schools ; this is why we must take an entire year group and insist that in that year there is no - one who does not receive Internet training . 
There is therefore a very clear strategy for Lisbon . 
Basically , in Lisbon , we need to revitalise employment and growth , confident in our ability to succeed , and we must therefore move towards this model which is based on stable balance . 
To return to today ' s debate , I would like to pick up on an expression which was used by one of the MEPs , Mr Goebbels , who , if I am not mistaken , said that Europe is suffering from a ' deficit of the future . ' 
The problem is simple . 
We cried on each other ' s shoulders for such a long time , but during this time the seeds of what we had sown with such sacrifice in the early days of Europe were preparing to bear fruit . 
Now , let us please endeavour to make good the deficit of the future and give the coming generations a sense of direction , in the knowledge that we are working together , slowly but surely , to achieve something which will last . 
It is clear that , at this point , the three processes have to be combined . 
Unfortunately , our terminology is nightmarish , but let us genuinely group macroeconomic issues and labour and structural problems together , right now , and we will then be able to achieve the results we desire through very simple , specific measures . 
Remember the European company : we have not yet reached unanimity over the European company , but hundreds of thousands of companies are demanding it . 
It must be accomplished at all costs , because , quite simply , the idea of operating in fifteen different countries which , at this stage , are in any case metamorphosing into one single country , with different rules governing basic business principles , is not viable : we will not be able to sell it because it does not make sense . 
The same applies to the Community patent - for we will not be able to sell that either - to procurement rules and the capital market and to the beginnings of the coordination of social security , because there is no point in us dreaming up great expectations of mobility or developing such successful programmes as ERASMUS or SOCRATES to make people more mobile , if our social security rules do not then support this mobility . 
You see , all the different pieces are coming together to give direction to Lisbon . 
We are able to give it credibility precisely because the Portuguese Presidency has teased out the threads of unification and woven these together to form a tapestry . 
We now have the resources , and I hope that in Lisbon we will be able to unite to put them into practice , for I feel there is a great need for this and that we may also achieve more than we expect . 
Thank you very much , Mr President of the Commission , thank you very much , Mr President - in - Office , for your notable contributions to an interesting and important debate . 
I have received six motions for resolutions , pursuant to Rule 37 ( 2 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon . 
The debate is closed . 
 ( The sitting was suspended at 8 . 15 p . m . and resumed at 9 . p . m . ) 
Before we resume the sitting I should like to make a comment which I always make at night sittings , but since faces change there are many people here who are not yet familiar with this . 
I should like to request that you contribute to the sitting ' s reaching a speedy conclusion by keeping to the speaking times . 
There are three reasons for this . 
The first is the old party rule : the later the evening , the more rowdy the guests . 
That does not apply to the plenary . The second is that the people sitting behind the glass screens - the interpreters - also want to go home . 
The third reason is that , as well as the interpreters , there are many others behind the scenes who have to work until the end of the sitting to ensure that , for example , the Minutes are ready for tomorrow . 
So please , keep to the speaking times and we will make good progress ! 
Environmental dimension in the development process
The next item is the recommendation for second reading ( A5 - 0051 / 2000 ) by Mr Wijkman , on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation , on the Council common position for adopting a European Parliament and Council regulation on measures to promote the full integration of the environmental dimension in the development process of developing countries ( 12485 / 1 / 1999 - C5 - 0013 / 2000 - 1999 / 0020 ( COD ) ) . 
rapporteur . 
 ( SV ) Mr President , ever since the Brundtland report of 1987 , it has been clear that a policy which emphasises only economic growth cannot be sustained in the longer term . 
The challenge for us all consists in integrating social and environmental considerations . 
This means , for instance , that environmental considerations cannot be seen as a sectoral issue but that the possible negative environmental impact of production , transport , construction , etc . must be clarified at the planning stage and minimised through a variety of measures . 
The Rio Conference involved preparing an action programme which , on a sector - by - sector basis , points out the most important problem areas in this context and states how protection of the environment and of natural resources is to be ensured . 
In spite of the fact that this is a document of several hundred pages , it is a programme which , in general , is well put together . 
If further progress is to be made towards the necessary level of integration , an appropriate method has to be developed . 
Indicators also need to be selected so as to be able to keep abreast of what is under way in terms of developing know - how , pilot projects etc . 
This type of work has been going on for many years in many of the OECD countries . 
It could be given higher priority , but it is in fact under way . 
Matters are organised rather less well in the majority of developing countries . 
There , there is a lack of both knowledge and resources to facilitate the integration of environmental considerations , together with the preventive approach which is the very essence of the decisions taken in Rio . 
In this context , aid can play an important role . 
As aid donors , we have , on the whole , a major responsibility for ensuring that we transfer knowledge and techniques that are sustainable , that is to say which do not entail severe damage to the environment and to natural resources . 
The proposed regulation we are discussing today is aimed at ensuring that , in providing aid , the EU fully and completely integrates the environmental dimension into its activities . 
In the longer term , the objective is , of course , for this type of integration , or mainstreaming as it is called , to take place quite automatically , that is to say without special budget appropriations or programmes . 
So far , there remains , however , a lot to be done in terms of developing methods . 
In particular , knowledge and skills within both the Commission and the recipient countries must be increased . 
I was responsible for the preparations for this second reading . 
My work has , of course , been very much based upon experiences from the first reading and upon the preparatory work for that reading . 
On that occasion , Parliament tabled a large number of amendments , of which approximately a third have been accepted by the Council ahead of this second reading . 
Analysing the situation , I identified three or four principal points where I think we in Parliament ought to try to amend the Council proposal . 
The most important of these issues are firstly , the size of the budget , the way in which activities are directed and the way in which the rules are to be interpreted , that is to say they should relate not only to developing countries ' activities but also , of course , shape our own activities within the EU . 
That does not mean that other questions raised at first reading are not important . What it does mean , however , is that we ought to concentrate on those which are most important . 
We ought also , in the interests of reaching agreement with the Council , to see to it that we , as far as possible , relinquish what is of less importance . 
I am delighted to note that , following the informal discussions which have taken place , it has been possible considerably to increase the amount of the budget , namely from the proposed figure of just over EUR 50 million to just over EUR 90 million . 
This is something we ought to support , a fact which also emerges from Amendment No 11 . 
Regarding the period of applicability of this regulation , I believe that there is no reason to commit ourselves now once and for all . 
I think that the Council ' s proposal is acceptable because an evaluation will take place within four or five years . 
This question will then , at all events , return to Parliament . 
Finally , I want to mention a question on which there have been , and remain , a variety of views . 
This concerns the committee procedure , that is to say how actual implementation of this regulation will look . 
Where this is concerned , I take the view that we should try to get away from an arrangement whereby the Member States themselves are directly involved in determining the fine detail of implementation . 
They should be involved , and determine the framework and rules , but leave it to the Commission to implement the actual project . 
In this connection , we have proposed , in the course of the examination of this proposal , a so - called split comitology procedure , which could be used to excellent effect . 
I hope that the vote will ensure that this will also become Parliament ' s proposal . 
Might I just ask for one more thing ? 
The fact is , we shall need further consultations . 
I would therefore propose without further ado that the vote could take place on Wednesday . 
Mr President , this is a particularly important regulation given that it can no longer be said that ' we are destroying the environment '  - we have done this for long enough already - instead it is now almost true to say that ' the environment is destroying us '  ! 
It is now our task to counteract this . 
In the industrialised countries , significant initiatives are being taken to preserve and protect the environment . 
In the developing countries , however , intensive work still needs to be done on designing appropriate policies , strategies and projects to prevent further destruction and to care for the environment . 
Measures need to be implemented which , for instance , take account of the consequences of developing countries being integrated into the global economy . 
Nigeria can once again serve as an example here , as oil drilling there is causing commensurate environmental damage . 
Here too , education and training measures need to be supported in order , in the end , to help people to help themselves . 
The content of the regulation must therefore be supported in full , although the budget proposed by the Council is not sufficient by far . 
That is why I should like to ask all colleagues to vote in favour , in particular , of Amendment No 11 , so that at least reasonable financial provision is made , even if this falls well below the amount for previous initiatives and is still only around EUR 13 million a year . 
Even at this early stage a considerable increase needs to be considered for when the Treaty or the regulation is revised . 
Mr President , while much progress remains to be made , it is true that the European Union has always pursued a policy of cooperation and development in respect of developing countries , and I believe that the environmental dimension must be incorporated into this policy and expanded upon . 
Indeed , the notion of sustainable development takes on real meaning in such countries , and more particularly in the very poorest of them , since these are the countries which most often experience large - scale disasters , including the natural disasters which have recently become increasingly common . 
Much has indeed been said of pollution and the effects of pollution , but this proliferation of natural disasters was evident in Central America and Venezuela at the end of last year , and can now be seen in Mozambique and Madagascar . 
These disasters are in fact the result of extreme climatic changes with which we should be quite familiar , since they are precipitated by human activities , notably those of developed countries . 
The greenhouse effect and deforestation also have a considerable impact . 
As regards this regulation on the environmental dimension in the development process in developing countries , the Council has broadly taken up the amendments that we presented and voted upon at first reading . 
From this perspective we cannot fail to be satisfied . 
I would nevertheless like to stress one point that the Council has overlooked - inadvertently , I believe and hope - but which is absolutely fundamental : coordination between European operators and local partners , which is to say local NGOs , grass - roots communities and people with a time - honoured understanding of how to harness biological diversity . 
No programme can be truly effective unless it is conducted in close collaboration with the communities concerned . 
One last point : should we be successful in setting up steering committees , I believe it would be necessary to re - emphasise the importance of establishing a complaint procedure which is open to civil society in developing countries with regard to measures that run counter to legitimate concerns in the field of social welfare . 
Mr President , the key to the development of the less developed countries is that they should have the chance themselves to participate in their own development programmes by identifying the problems themselves and seeking solutions to them . 
Whenever I have been involved in development work I have observed that this approach has , thankfully , over the past few years been taking the place of the old paternalistic aid - oriented ideology , where the so - called developed countries thought development was a matter of transferring our way of life to the less developed countries . 
The new paradigm for development cooperation stresses the notion of partnership , in which the so - called donor of aid is a consulting party . 
It must allow scope for the countries concerned to determine for themselves what their problems are , and let them draw up a plan to improve the situation and find a solution themselves . 
The most important task aid agencies have is to make themselves unnecessary , all the while ensuring that the work is leading to local action and prosperity . 
My colleague , Mr Wijkman , has produced a good report in this respect , one that emphasises this paradigm that is the only successful and morally tenable one . 
However , at present , this approach is being applied scandalously badly by the EU as far as scientific and technological projects are concerned . 
The EU ' s framework programmes do not extend to developing countries . 
In other words , our North African partners , for example , cannot become involved in scientific and technological projects concerning the environment . 
Nothing is actually preventing them from doing research but there are simply no facilities for financing projects , as the developing countries do not have access to the consortia as a party applying for funds . 
But why not ? 
It has been made easier for Eastern Europe to participate . 
The matter is even harder to appreciate , when we think of how much we are affected by the problems of desertification in North Africa and the problems that are associated with the Mediterranean area . 
We must give more responsibility , by way of funding , to local researchers to be able to create development that will be of benefit to the local community and leave the job to them when the financiers have left . 
We must ensure that no project can be established without input from local researchers . 
Mr President , the regulation on the table gives the European Union an instrument and the legal - but also the political - responsibility to ensure that the environmental dimension is integrated into development policy . 
To do this , sufficient financial support is of course necessary . 
That is why I , like one previous speaker already , advocate voting in favour of the rapporteur ' s Amendment No 11 . 
Since integrating the environmental dimension is a long - term commitment , I am in principle against limiting the duration of this regulation . 
However , the arguments that excessively lengthy negotiations with the Council are putting existing projects - projects which are already up and running - at risk have persuaded me otherwise . 
I also believe that Amendment No 9 , which seeks to involve civil society in exchanging information and implementing this regulation , is of fundamental importance , because in my opinion the discussions about civil society and the discussions about good governance must not only be reflected on the political soapbox but also in active policy implementation . 
In the same way I support the rapporteur ' s proposal on split comitology , whereby decisions on the strategic guidelines would be decided under a management procedure and those on implementation under an advisory procedure . 
Hopefully we are reaching the conclusion of a process that started a year ago under the previous Parliament . 
Apart from the importance of the topic itself , this regulation and the accompanying tropical forests regulation represent the first regulations concerning development cooperation to be considered under codecision . 
So for many of us this is an interesting learning experience . 
The previous regulation expired at the end of 1999 . 
Since the beginning of this year , the Commission has been unable to make any new financial commitments on these budget lines . 
This places the Commission and Europe in an increasingly difficult situation . 
Hence our desire to conclude the process of adoption in the near future . 
In this context , we have supported the informal negotiations between the Council presidency and the parliamentary rapporteur so as to arrive at a proposal which could be accepted by both parties . 
The main areas of difference have been on the financial reference amounts , on comitology and on the duration of the regulation . 
I would like to comment briefly on each of these issues . 
On the financial reference amount , briefly , we accept the compromise proposals put forward under Amendment No 11 . 
Comitology : 
Our position has been to advocate an advisory rather than management procedure for the management of the regulation in accordance with Council Decision 1999 / 468 / EC of 28 June 1999 which states :  " The management procedure should be followed as regards management measures such as those relating to the application of the common agricultural and common fisheries policies ; also the implementation of programmes with substantial budgetary implications " . 
In our view , the programme to be funded under the regulation does not represent substantial budgetary implications and hence does not merit a management procedure , an advisory procedure being more appropriate . 
However , in view of the Council ' s views on this matter and in order to avoid conciliation , we support the compromise proposal put forward by Parliament for a split comitology procedure whereby decisions on strategic guidelines for the actions to be financed would be subject to a management procedure while project approval for the limited number of projects over EUR 2 million would be subject to an advisory procedure . 
Hence the Commission supports , in principle , Amendment No 16 but prefers the wording of Amendments Nos 19 , 20 and 21 . 
Concerning the duration of the regulation , our position has been to support an unlimited duration subject to periodic revision following evaluations . 
However we are aware that if unlimited duration were to be approved here , this would lead inevitably to a conciliation process . 
In this context we consider that the duration of seven years , proposed by the Council , is adequate and hence , in the interest of avoiding conciliation , we do not support Amendment No 18 , which places an unlimited duration on the regulation . 
The final important issue common to both this regulation and the forest regulation are the amendments concerning bank guarantees . 
We concur with the view of Parliament that the Commission should not place bureaucratic barriers to the access of some NGOs to financing from Community funds . 
For this reason the Commission took a decision in July 1999 only to require bank guarantees for advance payments of over EUR 1 million . 
Hence the problem has , to a large extent , been resolved . 
Furthermore the Commission considers that such matters are best addressed in a horizontal manner rather than through specific regulations . 
For these reasons the Commission does not support the proposed Amendment No 10 on bank guarantees . 
The remaining amendments of the environment regulation can be placed in two categories : on the one hand , amendments which consist of reformulating elements of the scope of the proposed act or its means of intervention ; and on the other hand , amendments concerning the management of the actions to be financed , in particular financial aspects . 
With regard to these two types of amendments , the position of the Commission is as follows . With the aim of finding a compromise solution which would make it possible to avoid conciliation the Commission could support Amendments Nos 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 and 8 , although it considers that they bring little added value to the text overall . 
Careful reading of the joint position will show that most of the concerns behind these amendments have been taken into consideration but following the structure of the regulation . 
The second type of amendments pose more problems to the Commission which therefore does not support them : Amendment No 9 - coordination with the local partners , as formulated in the report - is not supported by the Commission , not because of disagreement with the principle , but because the article in question is framed in the context of the Treaty which only refers to coordination with Member States . 
Amendment No 12 proposes the raising of the threshold for submission of projects for consideration by the Council from EUR 2 million to EUR 5 million . 
Given that most projects are already under EUR 2 million this amendment is considered not relevant . 
Furthermore we are concerned that its adoption would lead to a conciliation process . 
Therefore the Commission does not support it . 
The amendments on procurement and access to the markets - Amendments Nos 13 and 14 - would mean a departure from standard and carefully agreed formulations . 
In any event , as with bank guarantees , the Commission does not consider it appropriate that such issues be addressed through special provisions in specific regulations but rather in a horizontal manner . 
We oppose Amendment No 15 , concerning the creation of an environmental monitoring union , as this is in our opinion a question of internal Commission organisation which should not be addressed through a regulation . 
Such a unit is , in fact , already operational although we intend to strengthen it further . 
Lastly , we do not support Amendment No 17 as it does not conform to the usual rules or formulation of regulations and is considered to be redundant . 
Thank you , Commissioner . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon . 
If the rapporteur wishes the vote to be postponed I would ask him to request this at voting time . 
Our services say that it is possible to do so then . 
Conservation and sustainable forest management
The next item is the recommendation for second reading ( A5 - 0043 / 2000 ) by Mr Bouwman , on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism . . . 
 ( Mr Bouwman interrupted the President . ) 
Bouwman . 
 ( DE ) Mr President , I think you are mistaken ! 
There is another report first . 
I would be happy to speak now , but there is another report first . 
President . 
Thank you very much , Mr Bouwman . I knew right at the beginning of the debate that there was a reason why I was so pleased to see you here in the House . 
Please forgive me . My files have got in rather a muddle . 
That does happen from time to time in the hectic activity of the night sitting . 
Forget what I have said so far . 
We will start again . 
The next item is the recommendation for second reading ( A5 - 0048 / 2000 ) by Mr Fernández Martín , on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation , on the Council common position for adopting a European Parliament and Council regulation on measures to promote the conservation and sustainable management of tropical forests and other forests in developing countries ( 12487 / 1 / 1999 - C5 - 0014 / 2000 - 1999 / 0015 ( COD ) ) . 
Mr President , as Commissioner Nielson has already stated , this debate marks the inauguration of the new competences of the Committee on Development and Cooperation in the field of codecision . 
The aim of the regulation under discussion today is to establish measures designed to promote the conservation and sustainable management of tropical forests in developing countries , in order to guarantee the funding necessary to maintain and make progress with the actions and projects which have been under way for this purpose since the adoption of Regulation 3062 , valid until December 1999 . 
This is the financial instrument by means of which the Union can fulfil the obligations arising from the Agreement on biodiversity , the Framework Agreement on climate change and the Agreement on the fight against desertification . 
All these agreements indicate that developing countries must be supported in the search for solutions to the problem of their forest resources . 
Between 1990 and 1995 , over 56 million hectares of forest , distributed unevenly in various parts of the world , were lost but , without a doubt , this particularly affected developing countries as a result of the increased amount of land used for agricultural purposes , the construction of infrastructures , or due to natural disasters and fires . 
We are therefore facing a problem of the first magnitude , not only for developing countries , but also for the whole planet and all the living beings that inhabit it , a problem that Parliament has already spoken about at first reading at the end of the previous legislature on 5 May 1999 . 
Since then , a long , and sometimes difficult , negotiation process has been taking place within the Council , which did not reach a common position until December 1999 , and between the Council , the Commission and Parliament itself , in search of the necessary consensus . All this took place under the restrictions caused by the approval of a budget which imposed limitations in various respects , and in particular the need to allocate funding to implement the special plan for the reconstruction of Kosovo . 
At first reading , Parliament approved a total of 34 amendments of which the Council , in its common position , has totally or partially taken up 18 . 
Of the remaining 16 , some , and in particular Amendments Nos 5 and 6 , are no longer relevant following the interinstitutional agreement on the 2000 budget . 
The debate and negotiations that we have held with the Council and the Commission have focused on three topics : the budget , dates and comitology . 
The rapporteur particularly wishes to highlight the hard work and flexibility shown by all concerned in the search for a consensus on the budget , so that , from an initial figure of EUR 9 million from the B7 - 6201 line , which implied a total of EUR 73 million for the whole period , we have reached an agreement that implies the provision of EUR 249 million for the next seven years as a whole , starting with the EUR 30 million already stipulated in the budget for the year 2000 . 
Based on this budgetary agreement , which includes an agreement on dates , the differences have focused on aspects of comitology derived from the historic positions of Parliament and the Council itself that , with a view to the future , in my opinion - and not to insist on the problems made manifest in Mr Wijkman ' s intervention - I believe that they should be revised in an interinstitutional agreement in order to speed up the parliamentary legislative procedure and make it more efficient . 
Finally , I wish to request the support of the House with regard to Amendments Nos 1 , 7 , 9 , 10 , 11 and 12 , and a negative vote for the others , which , if successful , would break the agreement reached during the discussions with the Commission and the Council , which would oblige the whole negotiating process to begin again , paralyse some of the actions and projects under way and undoubtedly cause serious problems in the policy of conservation and rehabilitation of the tropical forests that we are trying to develop . 
Mr President , I should like to say that I agree with many of the points made in the report by the previous speaker and rapporteur , Mr Fernández Martín . 
Above all , as with all budget lines , it is very important to discuss the funding these budget lines represent . 
As with the previous report , I am not happy that the duration is limited , but the very many projects put at risk are a good reason to reach an agreement with the Council as quickly as possible . 
Just as with Mr Wijkman ' s report , I agree with the rapporteur on the split comitology , meaning that the strategic guidelines will be decided under a management procedure while there will be an advisory committee for project implementation . 
One point which is of really fundamental importance to me is made in various amendments - for example , Amendments Nos 2 and 4 - which emphasise the active participation of forest peoples and the indigenous population . 
I believe that this is an absolutely fundamental point , especially when we are talking about the sustainable management of tropical forests and other forests in developing countries . 
Mr President , Commissioner , Mr Martín , you have certainly described very clearly what your report is all about . 
Thank you for that . 
But we also all know only too well that not all projects are as successful as we would like them to be . 
This makes it all the more important , in our view , for both the people concerned on the spot and local groups to be involved , as early as the preliminary planning stage , in decisions such as how projects are to be organised , so as to ensure that these projects - which of course we wish to fund - are sustainable from an ecological and social , but also cultural , point of view . 
It is not always the case - and we are aware of this too - that the interests of local people are respected ; instead they are often subordinated and sacrificed to the economic interests of particular groups , such as for example multinational logging companies . 
There is a lot that I could say about Brazil in this context , about how interests of this kind are represented there , because one thing is clear : the issue of whether tropical forests can be used sustainably at all , without their being permanently damaged in the process , is still not satisfactorily settled . 
It is precisely here that there should be no cut in the Commission and the Council ' s contributions , because that would almost certainly be counterproductive . 
This is because if the forests continue to be damaged to the same extent as they have been up until now , the local people will be the first to suffer and then we will all suffer throughout the whole world , because dramatic changes in climate can of course already be identified . 
It is also very important for us now for the projects to be able to continue to run without interruption . 
The demands we are making of the Council are not after all demands which we have plucked out of thin air , and I believe that it ought to be possible through skilful negotiation to secure something here , because the conditions are not after all impossible to meet . 
Otherwise we can only endorse Mr Fernández Martín ' s report ; the comments made by Mrs Scheele and others are also a perfect reflection of our own thoughts . 
Thank you very much for this generous gift to my colleagues . 
Mr President , the state of tropical forests is worrying on two counts , as the impoverishment of the forest is not only quantitative but also qualitative in nature . 
The biodiversity of our planet is at stake . 
The Commission has thus acted appropriately in proposing a new Council regulation on tropical forests and I fully subscribe to the thrust of the amendments proposed by the rapporteur , the pinpoint relevance of whose work I salute . 
He has identified some valid points , certain aspects of which I would like to examine more closely . 
It would seem to me absolutely essential to reflect on the scope of the regulation . 
Firstly , programmes must be more closely targeted at the rehabilitation of tropical forests . 
The Council regulation of 1995 perhaps focused in too exclusive a manner on the protection of tropical forests and not sufficiently closely on the harnessing of their productive potential . 
Besides this , future Community actions must take into consideration every facet of sustainable forest management . 
This implies respect for the indigenous peoples who depend on forest ecosystems . 
One should never overlook the fact that there are major obstacles to the indispensable involvement of these vulnerable communities : the forest areas in question are often the scene of unrest and conflict or suffer from the adverse impact of tourism , which all too often is held up as a miracle cure , and of local laws on forests which are hardly ever enforced , even where they actually exist . 
There are , of course , forests in which there are no production activities of any type , but there are also forests that continue to fulfil an economic function . 
This is the case with our own forests within the European Union , and I would ask my fellow Members what Community aid was provided for European forests after they were decimated by the storm that raged last December ? 
We must without doubt take up the challenges laid down in this report , but must also institute a genuine Community policy on conservation and sustainable management . 
I hardly need to emphasise the importance of tropical forests at a global level given their influence on climate patterns , the large proportion of the world ' s biodiversity that is contained within them and of course their importance to the livelihoods of millions in developing countries - fuel wood being an obvious example . 
For these and other reasons , Europe ' s citizens rightly expect the Community to support actions to conserve and sustainably manage tropical forests . 
I say tropical forests , but in fact a new feature of this regulation compared to the previous one is that the scope of the regulation now covers all developing countries and hence now includes countries such as South Africa , China and the Mediterranean and Middle East regions . 
The regulation also makes specific reference to the needs of indigenous and forest - dependent people and the need for gender considerations to be taken into account . 
We have just discussed the environment regulation and the comments I made then on a number of horizontal issues are also largely applicable to the forest regulation . 
For this reason , I will be brief . 
With reference to the amendments listed in the Fernández Martín report , the Commission ' s position on the main horizontal issues is as follows . 
Financial reference account : the Commission accepts the compromise figure of EUR 249 million over seven years proposed in Amendment No 9 . 
Comitology - the Commission supports in principle Amendment No 11 but prefers the wording of Amendments Nos 13 , 14 and 15 . The amendments propose a split comitology arrangement with annual guidelines and priorities being subject to a management procedure while Council would examine projects over EUR 2 million under an advisory procedure . 
Duration of the regulation : in order to avoid conciliation , the Commission ' s position is not to support Amendment No 12 , which places an unlimited duration on the regulations . 
In our view the seven - year duration proposed by Council represents an acceptable compromise . 
Bank guarantees : the Commission does not support Amendment No 8 concerning bank guarantees for reasons outlined earlier . 
We are against special provisions being made in specific budget lines as this goes against our common objective , namely , to simplify and unify administrative procedures . 
Furthermore , following a Commission decision in 1999 , we consider that the issue has been largely resolved . 
Concerning the other amendments , our position is as follows . 
The Commission welcomes and supports Amendments Nos 7 and 10 . Amendment No 4 is considered acceptable . 
We do not support Amendments Nos 2 , 3 and 6 as we consider that the concepts have been taken into account elsewhere in the regulation following the first reading . 
Hence , in the interest of clear and concise legislation , we would prefer that these amendments be dropped . 
Amendment No 1 is not supported as in our opinion it brings little added value . 
Given the Council ' s negative position on this amendment , the Commission would favour it also being dropped . 
Finally , we do not support Amendment No 5 as the term ' serious doubts ' is considered to be too subjective , making it very difficult to implement the regulation . 
Furthermore , the objective of this amendment , namely , to avoid projects with negative social , cultural or economic or environmental effects , is addressed in Article 4 ( 5 ) on impact assessments . 
Thank you , Commissioner Nielson . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon . 
Ship - generated waste and cargo residues
Now , Mr Jarzembowski , is the great moment ! 
The next item is the recommendation for second reading ( A5 - 0043 / 2000 ) by Mr Bouwman , on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , on the common position established by the Council with a view to the adoption of a European Parliament and Council directive on port reception facilities for ship - generated waste and cargo residues . 
Mr President , Commissioner , we are debating a directive which is extremely - I repeat extremely - rigorous . 
We have been discussing the Erika disaster here for the past couple of weeks . 
A whole ream of new measures on double hulls , inspection , the inspection of inspectorates , etc are being conceived in the short term . 
Disasters of this kind account for no more than 3 % of oil pollution at sea . 
Normal shipping operations account for double this amount . 
Not only that . 
If we consider our beaches , for example in the Netherlands - but also in other countries - 49 % of the rubbish washed up on the shore comes directly from the sea . 
Only 15 % is due to tourism and a large proportion is even unaccountable for , although that , of course , must originate from somewhere . 
In short , this directive is essential because the economic damage is significant and because the quality of the habitats for birds , fish , etc . , which is so vital , is deteriorating . In other words , this affects our own habitat . 
I do not need to say any more concerning the motives underlying this directive . 
I will only have positive things to say to the Commission about the quality of the directive . 
There was nonetheless a whole raft of amendments at first reading which has been completely endorsed by Parliament . 
I believe there were eighteen in total , a large proportion of which have been adopted , with a number of less important ones having been rejected . 
These will re - emerge in some shape or form . 
I would mainly like to home in on one very important point . 
We all share the view throughout the Union that something needs to be done when the seas are polluted . 
I would once again refer to the Erika , but there are also other examples . 
We are also agreed that the polluter - pays principle must apply . 
The present report contains an amendment which states that the full range of cost recovery systems should not be admitted within the European Union because some cost recovery systems for port reception facilities do not do justice to what is needed to keep our environment clean . 
There is no financial incentive . 
Let me illustrate this quite clearly . 
In the southern Member States , to all intents and purposes , a direct costing principle applies , which means that the polluters who deliver their waste to port do pay whereas the polluters who do not deliver their waste to port , still pollute but do not pay . 
Northern countries apply a system in which this financial element is handled in a different way . 
Everyone pays , whether they dump their waste in the sea or dispose of it elsewhere . 
In addition , there is some kind of financial incentive that contributes in some way or other to ensuring that this waste is disposed of . 
Experience and scientific research has shown that this seems to work . 
This is one of the reasons why Parliament is tenacious on this point . The Commission , too , on whose behalf I am talking , persists in applying a percentage of indirect costs which must be included in the port dues . 
This is , in fact , what we are opting for . If the percentage is 90 % , so be it . 
It could also be 75 % , but there should at least be a minimum level , which should be quite inflexible . 
Otherwise we will fall back into a variety of systems and it will be years - in a manner of speaking - before we learn from the lesson we have actually already been taught . 
I would therefore like to assure everyone that this is why it is sensible to opt for a system in which indirect costs are somehow absorbed in port dues . 
If you read the Commission ' s proposal , a country could fall to 0 . 01 % of indirect costs if it so wishes . I fear that this will be opted for in practice . 
This will also be the key point of discussion for the foreseeable future . 
There is a whole raft of other factors involved and we have reached agreement on a great many of them . 
I do believe that somehow we will make it . 
But this is the crux of the matter and I wanted to draw everyone ' s attention to it . 
Mr President , Madam Vice - President , ladies and gentlemen , first of all I should like to stress that we had a good debate at the two readings . 
May I thank the rapporteur , Mr Bouwman , very much for taking on this dossier and for elucidating it so well . 
We are after all at one with the Council on three points . 
Firstly , proper port reception facilities for ship - generated waste have to be constructed at every European port unless it already has them . 
They must therefore be provided . 
Secondly , all ships , regardless of the flag they fly , have to dispose of their waste . 
Thirdly , the costs must be borne by the ship . 
We agree on these points . 
In fact , together we want to put a system in place so as to avoid there being financial incentives to dump waste into the sea . 
Firstly , we wish to protect flora and fauna and secondly , there are a large number of coastlines along which , on the one hand , tourists enjoy themselves and on the other jobs are to be created . 
That means that we want to have an effective system . 
So where do we differ from the Council , apart from on minor details such as the fact that we wish to exempt museum ships from the bureaucratic rules and that we are a little stricter where large fishing vessels and recreational craft are concerned ? 
The really decisive difference is the issue of how the disposal costs are charged to the ship . 
Mr Bouwman has , of course , already explained this . 
There are two precedents . The first is in the Baltic Sea area , and this is not the experience of an individual state but the experience of the entire Baltic Sea area , and it says that if a large proportion of the disposal costs is covered by the general port dues then there is obviously no incentive to dispose of the ship - generated waste at sea . 
Surely if people have already paid the disposal costs then they will actually dispose of the waste in port . 
The other system is the pure polluter - pays principle : anyone who lands ship - generated waste has to pay extra for doing so . 
This second system has proved to be ineffective , otherwise why would the Mediterranean Sea be so dirty ? 
Why would the North Sea be so dirty ? 
Because for lack of adequate controls the polluter - pays principle does not work ! 
That is why a broad majority of the committee - not a large majority ; the representatives of the minority view will be speaking shortly - said , as Parliament as a whole did in the first reading , without any dispute , that the ' no - special - fee ' system was the best system because it , as it were , offers ships a financial incentive not to dump their muck into the water when they are at sea but to dispose of it in proper port reception facilities . 
That is the decisive issue . 
We are prepared to reach an agreement with the Council . 
But so far the Council has rejected any serious agreement with us . 
That is why I call on the House to support our amendment whereby a significant proportion - up to 90 %  - of the costs have to be covered by the general port dues . 
This would give us the opportunity to reach an agreement with the Council in the conciliation procedure , whether it be on 75 % or whatever . 
That is also why I would make the following request of the Commission : Madam Vice - President , think carefully about which side you stand on ! 
I believe that in the interests of protecting the environment and of a permanently thriving tourist industry in many countries of our Community it is better to have an effective system . 
For these reasons support our ' no - special - fee ' system . 
Perhaps then we will reach a reasonable compromise with the Council in the conciliation procedure . 
Mr President , I am pleased that you are the one chairing this debate because I know that as a Bavarian you always offer a sympathetic ear where ports and maritime matters are concerned , and I should like to thank the rapporteur , Mr Bouwman , for the work which he has done and also for cooperating with us in the run - up to tomorrow ' s vote . 
There are a few points at stake tomorrow . 
Firstly , we know that the ship is the most environmentally friendly mode of transport for carrying passengers and goods . 
At the same time we know that ships make a hefty contribution to polluting the sea with rubbish , cargo residues and oily slime . 
The fuel used by ships happens to be heavy oil and we know that this heavy oil leaves a residue of between 1 % and 3 % as oily slime , which is typically discharged into the sea . 
I think that we agree that ships have to dispose of waste and residues in port . 
It follows - and in fact there is no other logical conclusion - that the cardinal rule for clean seas is that it must no longer be worthwhile for waste to be disposed of illegally on the high seas . 
This is what this is about , and a majority of us have said as much in debates here . 
In January we had a very thorough debate with you , Commissioner , on the consequences of the Erika disaster . 
On this occasion we once again drew together all the points on ship safety and clean seas . 
And this directive on port reception facilities for cargo residues is , of course , also about the question of how to make our seas cleaner . 
Just for information , we know that 70 000 m3 of detritus is illegally discharged into the North Sea alone every year and , conversely , we know that at present a maximum of 5 % to 10 % of ships obey the rules and dispose of their waste in port . 
This scandal is not acceptable in the eyes of the Council either . 
The Council is after all also saying that all ports must have appropriate port reception facilities available and must be equipped with them . 
The conflict now is ultimately over the issue of how payments will be made . 
In its first reading , Parliament said by a large majority that the ships must make a significant contribution , of at least 90 % . 
And therein lies the difference with the Council , which is saying that a contribution has to be made . 
But a contribution might also only mean half a euro and in this case God knows this would be too little . 
Nothing would change . 
There would be no financial pressure on ships to obey the rules . 
What is needed is a standard waste disposal fee for all ships irrespective of how much they actually use the disposal facilities , meaning that the financial incentive to dispose of waste at sea has to be removed , which - as has already been explained here today - was possible in the Baltic Sea through the HELCOM Agreement and the ' no - special - fee ' system . 
If it can be done there it must also be possible for it to work for the remaining European seas , because this is not only about the environment : it is about clean waters , it even has consequences for tourism and - the decisive point - alongside the environmental issue it is also about fair competition . 
The same conditions must apply to all ships in port and only if Parliament , the Council and the Commission create these conditions together will this fair competition be restored for ports and ships . 
I think that this is also about the credibility of the Union and , in particular , Parliament . 
I think that people are tired of seeing the hypocrisy of Europe and of ministers each time that there is a catastrophe , as we saw of course with ' Erika '  . 
Oil comes onto the beaches and then politicians and ministers appear and try to clear it up themselves with a tiny little bucket , but when a fortnight later a robust directive is up for debate they have forgotten yesterday ' s fine words . 
We will not be able to rule out accidents altogether , but we can take optimal precautions . 
This consistent directive is an important step towards doing this . 
I also hope that our liberal colleagues will perhaps reconsider before tomorrow whether they might not - including for reasons of parliamentary identity - join us once again as they did in the first and also in the second reading , because we will then be going into the conciliation procedure anyway and there we will have to see how much ground the Council can give . 
I believe - for environmental and competition reasons as well as on the basis of the decisions made two months ago , in January - that we should adopt these amendments tomorrow , in the form in which we debated them in the committee , with a broad majority . 
Mr President , Commissioner , rapporteur , congratulations on your report . 
You have said so yourself just now : we desperately need this directive . 
It is a sound directive . 
Ports must be equipped with reception facilities . 
Inspection is on its way , at long last . 
Member States must also impose sanctions when these rules are broken . This is very important . 
This is good for the environment . 
Investments are already being made , in anticipation of the directive . 
For example , in Antwerp , very near to where I live , a huge installation is being built which was not there before . 
As such , this directive is already coming into effect in a sense . 
There is one point , as already highlighted by Mr Jarzembowski , where we do not see eye to eye . 
How do we charge the fees ? 
We are all agreed on the polluter pays principle . 
But should he pay an automatic full amount or a huge amount in port dues , or do we opt for a flexible arrangement , as is being proposed by the Council . 
Where is the best financial incentive , to use your words ? 
I have sounded out a number of people on this subject . 
The opinions are divided . Habits , apparently , are also divided . 
In fact , ports in one and the same region apply different standards and percentages . 
There are also ports which change percentages at the last minute , if I may say so . 
I believe that as such , it is probably better if we in Parliament do not pin ourselves down on a fixed percentage . 
A flexible system under these conditions , as you said so yourself , should make up a substantial part of the costs . 
0 . 01 is clearly not a substantial part . 
It should also have an encouraging effect , as a flexible part is left open for people who operate on an environmentally - friendly basis , provided that the Commission keeps a close eye on this whole process and checks whether the system works . 
If the objectives of the directive cannot be achieved , we would expect the Commission to intervene , act , suggest changes and ensure that the system does work . 
Fellow MEPs , we must rescue this directive and keep it come what may . 
I hope that we will not jeopardise the entire directive on account of a too principled stance on one point . 
Mr President , it is not so long ago that many held the view that waste would disappear if you dumped it in the sea or shot it into space . 
These days , we know that waste has a habit of reappearing , often in a more harmful form . 
Large - scale pollution of the sea and the destruction of the animal life caused by shipwrecked tankers always attracts a great deal of attention . 
Far less attention is given to the fact that seas are polluted on a daily basis by regular merchant navy ships and recreational yachts . 
It is high time that we laid down a comprehensive regulation which is easy to monitor and which ensures that shipping waste is collected and processed at ports in an environmentally - friendly manner . 
We can benefit from practical experience gained in ports such as my home town , Rotterdam . 
The question is , of course , raised as to whether rules can have an adverse effect on smaller vessels . Historic museum ships and ships which , proportionately , call at many ports over a short distance have to pay more often as a result . 
I am under the impression that the rapporteur has sought the best possible solution and has listened carefully to the comments . 
Other solutions would probably have a less favourable effect on environmental protection , and my group can assent to this report on that basis . 
Mr President , Commissioner , first of all , I too should like to thank Mr Bouwman for his efforts to broker a consensus of opinion within the committee . 
No absolute consensus was found but that ' s politics for you . 
Regardless of how matters stand or what the final version of the report will be , and whatever the agreement reached between the Council and Parliament , it is bound to be an improvement on the previous situation . 
Waste management facilities are to be built in ports and I believe this directive will definitely help considerably in limiting marine pollution . 
It is now evident , particularly from this debate , that there is a bone of contention here . 
There are clearly two systems : one in the North Sea , the ' no special fee ' system , and the system in operation in all other ports , whereby ships are charged according to their use of port facilities . 
I can understand my fellow Members ' concern that many unscrupulous masters will discharge waste at sea in order to avoid paying fees , but I would like to say that there is another side to the coin . 
The other side to the coin is that ports in Member States in the Mediterranean area , such as my own country , Greece , will face particularly stiff competition from ports in neighbouring non - EU countries as , of course , nothing will prevent masters of ships sailing through the Mediterranean from docking at Turkish or North - African ports so as to avoid paying the objectively high fees which are to apply in Community ports , irrespective of use of facilities . 
I would like to say that we have made some progress here . 
Let us hold on to the progress which we have made with this directive , namely the provision for a charging system based on certain objective criteria . 
I do not think that forcing the systems to converge , aside from problems with the principle of subsidiarity , will achieve the results we are hoping for , because there will always be ways of getting around the system , ways which are harmful to the environment . 
Mr President , every day five million items of solid waste are thrown overboard from ships . 
This rubbish drifts across the seas and ends up on beaches , severely damaging the environment and marine life . 
As a result one million birds and a hundred thousand marine mammals and sea turtles are killed each year . 
The MARPOL Convention aims to prevent pollution from ships but legislation is clearly necessary to ensure the convention is enforced . 
That is why this directive is so important and why tonight I am pleased to welcome the progress that has been made in Council to reach a common position which will force ships to dispose of their waste at port reception facilities . 
I also commend the work of the rapporteur , whose commitment reflects the strength of feeling within our committee to tackling this particular problem and a strong desire amongst parliamentarians of all parties to call a halt to this environmentally disastrous practice . 
I particularly welcome his strong support for the proposal that , in the interests of improving pollution prevention and avoiding distortions of competition , the environmental requirements should apply to all ships irrespective of the flag they fly and adequate waste reception facilities be made available in all ports throughout the Community . 
An area where British Labour Members take issue with the rapporteur is the way in which the polluter - pays principle is to be applied . 
The principle is one we strongly support but we believe it can be more effectively enforced if Member States retain the power to establish their own charging systems appropriate to their own circumstances . 
For example , in the UK the system by which a ship pays the waste collector each time it uses waste facilities , without the port getting involved , works well . 
It is based on a consensus which has been forged by all the players , including the ports and environmental groups like RSPB and the World Wildlife Fund . 
However , we share the rapporteur ' s concern that different charging systems should not lead to greater risk of maritime pollution . 
That is why we back the Council proposal to strengthen the review clause to ensure the impact of the directive is monitored regularly . 
Mr President , anyone who has witnessed the environmental consequences of the Erika disaster cannot reasonably vote against a report , the aim of which is to ensure that ship - generated waste oil is taken care of . 
This is an extraordinarily important report . 
It should be emphasised , in this context , that it is not mainly legislation that is missing . 
All EU countries have signed the so - called MARPOL Convention , and the Baltic countries have also signed the Helsinki Convention . 
The aim of both is to prevent discharges into the sea . 
It is a question , rather , of increasing access to port reception facilities and of creating the motivation also to use these . 
The Baltic is affected every year by a great many oil spills of greatly varying sizes . In Swedish waters alone , there are hundreds of these each year . 
The Baltic is also more vulnerable from an environmental point of view than many other seas . 
It is in this perspective that , with today ' s decision , we are seeing the beginnings of a solution to which , in the very end , all the countries around the Baltic will contribute , including the applicant States of Poland , Estonia , Latvia and Lithuania . 
This is , as I see it , a sphere in which we have everything to gain by cooperating across national borders . 
We can never in a million years solve Europe ' s environmental problems alone . 
Finally , a word in the ear of those who , for financial reasons , are still hesitant : think what the alternative cost of cleaning up our seas would be . 
There will come a time when we shall be able to meet imperatives of this kind . 
We shall then be grateful if we have done everything in our power to prevent oil spills . 
