Mr President , I would like to state briefly that I do not believe that anyone doubts the need for a directive to tackle this problem , which is a serious problem not only for Europe , but for all seas world - wide , and that urgent and effective measures are therefore necessary . 
I would like to make it clear that there is a series of principles which are universal , and with which we are therefore in complete agreement . 
First , every port must be equipped with the necessary facilities for the treatment of waste . 
Secondly , polluters must pay , naturally . 
I agree that there may be discrepancies in exceptions regarding the type of ship or devices for measuring the length of ships . 
However , what cannot happen is a battle leading to a distortion in competition between the different ports , where we find ourselves with a series of theoretically environmental measures on the protection of the coast or the sea , leading to a distortion in competition between the different ports . 
It is therefore on this issue that effective measures must be adopted because , if we are unable to adopt a suitable solution , then this directive will end in outright failure . 
And the only outcome will be that some ports are advantaged and others disadvantaged , all due to fine words on the environment leading to a competitive war between ports . 
The logical solution , for example , would be to establish the principle of a single tariff for all European ports , a tariff that is exactly the same , that would not give rise to any type of distortion in competition , or similar measures . 
Any decision that , for example , enables the Member States to grant subsidies to the different ports , would end up distorting competition and would ultimately be ineffective . 
Mr President , I share your love of the sea , and your love of diving and sailing , and I sincerely believe that all those present are concerned about how we can guarantee clean seas for current and future generations . 
I believe that the work we are discussing today is a great step forward . 
In this respect , I would like to congratulate the rapporteur , Mr Bouwman , and the whole of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism for their painstaking work throughout the discussion and throughout the negotiation of this initiative . 
As you know , the Commission is extremely concerned about marine pollution . 
I hope that I will shortly be able to provide you with a preliminary package of measures with the aim of monitoring the safety of oil tankers more effectively , measures that I hope we will be able to go on with , specifically making the most of the dramatic sinking of the Erika , a dramatic event which could mean that on this occasion we are able to overcome certain very specific interests that will undoubtedly be affected by the measures I shall be proposing in the near future . 
However , while it is certain that accidents lead to tremendous problems and disasters , the reality is that most spillages result , not from accidents , but simply from the regular cleaning out of the holds of certain ships , which is obviously a totally reprehensible act . 
In this respect , I believe that the legislation intended by this directive covers various aspects relating to the delivery of waste to ports . 
It obliges all Community ports to be equipped with appropriate reception facilities for waste , and to guarantee the planning of their management , which will be supervised by the authorities of the Member States . 
Furthermore , it obliges ships to deliver all ship - generated waste to the port , except where the ship has a sufficient storage capacity to enable it to arrive at the next stage , the next port . 
It also obliges ships to notify the port that they are going to deliver waste prior to their arrival in the port , and to pay the cost of the reception facilities . 
And this is where the problem lies . 
As various speakers have already pointed out , this is where the positions of Parliament and the Commission differ fundamentally . 
Ladies and Gentlemen , I would like to ask that in this matter , also taking into account the fact that the Commission is going to support Amendment No 16 by Mr Sterckx - I will refer to the rest of the amendments later - you accept the initial draft . 
It is true that we are not specifying what percentage will have to be paid by the ships arriving at the port . 
It is true that we are leaving a margin of flexibility for the Member States , but it is also certain that , theoretically , 0 . 01 , although it is a contribution , is not necessarily a significant contribution . 
Perhaps we could incorporate the word " significant " into the text instead of setting a fixed percentage . 
I would suggest a solution of this type , incorporating Amendment No 16 by Mr Sterckx , which means that there is a revision process which enables us , if necessary , to introduce a fixed percentage if we see that the Member States are not making any progress with regard to this distribution and that this excess of flexibility makes this directive ineffective . 
But I would try , first of all , to take this step forward , making the position more flexible with the possibility of revising it . 
Apart from this , I would like to state that we consider the suggestions being made to be very positive and that , therefore , we could incorporate into the text of the directive , with some rewording that would enable coherence with current Community and international texts to be guaranteed , as well as coherence with the rest of the directive , amendments such as 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 , 11 , 12 , 13 , 14 and 15 . 
That is , we are talking about practically all of the amendments and , in fact , the one we cannot accept - and I regret it , but I have already explained the reasons - is Amendment No 6 . 
I could go on , but the two reasons have already been stated . 
We are all working towards the same goal . 
The only difference of opinion is over how best to achieve this goal . 
I would ask for support for a more positive position , supplemented - I insist - with Amendment No 16 by Mr Sterckx , which would provide us with the necessary guarantees . 
In this respect , I would suggest that , instead of " by a percentage " , the word " significant " could be incorporated if necessary , to make it obvious that we are not talking about 1 % or 5 % or 10 % , but about a substantial figure . 
Many thanks , Mr President . 
I would like to reiterate my appreciation to the rapporteur and the rest of the Committee . 
Thank you , Madam Vice - President . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon . 
Technical roadside inspection of commercial vehicles
The next item is the recommendation for second reading ( A5 - 0040 / 2000 ) by Mr Piecyk , on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , on the Council common position for adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on the technical roadside inspection of the roadworthiness of commercial vehicles circulating in the Community . 
Mr President , Commissioner , there comes a time when you have to - what a shame , she is not listening when people speak , that is not good ! 
A good Commissioner should listen ! 
Can that be deducted from the time ? 
Commissioner , I actually wanted to address a minor comment to you , which applies both to this report and to the preceding one . 
There comes a time when you have to come to a decision , because post - Amsterdam the conciliation procedure is the great good . 
Parliament is obviously always pleased when the Commission fights at Parliament ' s side as its partner and does not necessarily rush obediently to the Council ' s cause . 
I do not believe that this is necessary here . 
I wanted actually to relate this comment to the report before us . 
The President has read out a very laborious title . 
Mr President , with your permission I will simply talk about lorry inspections ; that would be understood both in Regensburg and in Lübeck , and perhaps the Commission might also perhaps manage to use somewhat shorter titles . 
I think that we simply cannot do enough for road traffic safety . 
There is a consensus on that . 
This directive on lorry inspections should quite simply make a contribution to this . 
We are seeing a slight fall in the number of those killed and injured on the roads . 
Nevertheless - and regrettably - where the accidents involve lorries the numbers of those both killed and injured are rising . 
The causes are often precisely technical defects . 
We must not sit back and accept this . 
After all , a lorry does around 150 000 kilometres a year . 
This is an inconceivably high number compared with a private car . 
When it is under a strain of this kind , maximum technical roadworthiness is required in the interests of road safety , environmental protection and not least equitable competition . 
Because a fleet of lorries in a poor state of technical repair should certainly not have a competitive advantage , and conversely no haulier should be punished if he keeps his lorries in optimal technical condition . 
Now Europeans are obviously not so well behaved that they can manage without checks . 
This directive tries to cater for this problem by introducing a graduated inspection procedure until the vehicle is taken out of service . 
There has been a high measure of agreement between Parliament , the Council and the Commission , apart from on one problem and that is penalties . 
In its common position , the Council makes no mention of any arrangements . 
This is obviously nonsense because if I am going to carry out inspections there have to be penalties which I can use as a threat in borderline cases . 
Then the Council said - and these might not be its exact words - that the penalties would be directed at the Member States . 
No , penalties should be directed at hauliers , lorry - owners and drivers . 
That is why - as discussed in the committee - I have now tabled an amendment to Amendment No 2 which contains no reference to the concept of ' harmonisation '  . 
I have done this in the knowledge that the Council is going some way to accommodate us and that we in turn can also then accommodate the Council , because this directive , in my view , is a logical step forwards . 
Nevertheless - and the Council has to be aware of this - it is of course sensible that the Member States should have to reach an agreement , sooner or later , amongst themselves in the Council about these controls and the penalties threatened , because it would be ridiculous if for example offences carried almost a prison sentence in Finland and only a small fine in a southern country , or vice versa . 
That would not make any sense . 
Neither is it very European . 
That is why , on the procedure , I should like to say once more that Amendment No 3 replaces Amendment No 2 which was adopted by the committee . It ought therefore to be put to the vote first tomorrow . 
If the Bureau , which will be chairing the vote tomorrow , could be informed of this I would be very grateful . 
Then we would not have any procedural problems with this . 
So , put Amendment No 3 to the vote first . 
It would then replace Amendment No 2 . 
This is what was discussed in the committee , and then we could have this system very quickly and not work towards a costly conciliation procedure for the sake of a solution which is in principle sensible . 
Mr President , everything has been said . 
Allow me simply to offer the Vice - President a helping hand so that she might support Amendment No 3 - which replaces No 2 - after all . 
In this room there are sometimes Members who say that of course it is sensible to standardise the vehicle inspections in terms of how rigorous and how comprehensive they are . 
But when it comes to penalties and the word ' harmonisation ' a good many people in this room give a start - on the left and on the right of this House , both those higher up and those lower down . 
That is why I think that this Amendment No 3 which Mr Piecyk has drafted as rapporteur is excellent . 
He has completely avoided the word ' harmonisation '  . 
But he has said what this is all about . 
He has said that it cannot be right , if a commercial vehicle , a bus carrying passengers , is used when it does not comply with safety regulations - constituting danger to life and limb - for this to be regarded as a minor offence in one country while it meets with severe punishment in another . 
Given the danger to the passengers and also other drivers this would , however , be necessary . 
That is why this is not about the question of whether we are in favour of subsidiarity or centralism . 
It is about the fact that it is unacceptable for us to have the common aim of road safety , but for some governments to say : well , from the point of view of penalties we regard road safety offences as being on a par with disobeying a sign to keep off the grass , while others give it the correct weighting . 
The first principle , Madam Vice - President , is for us all to attach the same degree of importance to the need to improve road safety . 
The second argument is that there must be no distortions of competition in the Community . 
There are definitely examples of lorries from another Member State being subjected to particularly stringent controls , having tough penalties imposed , being detained , and so on in one country while in another country the authorities could not care less . This lies at the heart of the difference between Parliament ' s views and the common position . 
We certainly believe that where the penalties - which will remain within national competence - are concerned , the Member States ought to try to reach an agreement by asking themselves the following questions : what degree of importance do I attach to danger caused by road traffic ? And how am I to ensure that there is fair competition within the Community in an internal market ? 
That is why , Madam Vice - President , after a certain party ' s election victory in a large federal state you would make my evening complete if you were to say : we can accept the rapporteur ' s Amendment No 3 ! 
Could I begin by thanking the rapporteur for his work on this very important dossier , and by congratulating the Commissioner and the Commission for bringing forward this proposal . 
We are all very aware that one of the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency , quite rightly , is to tackle the scandalous position regarding road safety in the European Union . 
I know they are familiar figures , but 43 000 citizens are killed each and every year . 
That is the equivalent to a medium - sized town being wiped off the face of the earth every year . 
We therefore welcome this initiative as a means of at least trying to ensure the heavy goods vehicles are as safe as is possible and comply with Community legislation . 
Lorry traffic on EU roads is growing both in numbers and in size and we think there are three reasons why this proposal is so important . 
Firstly , the safety argument that we have already heard about . 
Secondly , the fair competition argument that my colleague Mr Jarzembowski has already referred to - the need to create a level playing field throughout the Community . 
Thirdly , there are also the environmental benefits - the possibility of ensuring quieter and less polluting vehicles . 
There is clearly a need for EU - wide random checks , and the UK - my own Member State - has already been applying such a system with very positive results . 
This proposal will inevitably be bad news for cowboy operators , but as well as being bad news for them , it is going to be good news for all other road users , particularly the vast majority of lorry drivers , owners and operators who are conscientious about the quality , safety and environmental standards of their vehicles . 
I welcome this initiative and I hope it can be put into effect as soon as possible . 
Mr President , Commissioner , reforming the directive on annual inspections of commercial vehicles is both urgent and vital . 
The rapporteur has adopted a perfectly good position in this issue , in the final analysis . 
Drivers of commercial vehicles run up thousands of kilometres every year , and the roadworthiness of the vehicles cannot be monitored adequately by means of mere annual inspections . 
Roadside spot checks are also necessary because heavy goods vehicles from non - member countries often enter the area of the Union in bad condition , presenting a serious risk to safety . 
The newly reviewed directive will do a lot to improve road safety if its provisions are complied with properly and penalties can be imposed for breaches , penalties that are effective , along the right lines and which will serve as a warning . 
The directive will be more efficacious if the Member States can negotiate a harmonised system of penalties . 
This should not , however , slow down the prompt implementation of the directive . 
Justification for the prompt reform of the directive is provided by something that happened recently in Finland . 
The police and the vehicle inspection authorities were conducting a spot check of sixty - two heavy goods vehicles in eastern Finland recently . The drivers of thirty - three of them received fines , and sixteen received a warning . 
Three vehicles were prohibited from continuing their journey . 
Only thirteen were in fully acceptable condition . 
A considerable number of the vehicles in bad condition were from non - member countries . 
The worst case was a Polish truck with no brakes in the drawing vehicle , a poorly secured load , and a trailer whose brakes were badly leaking . 
Everyone can imagine what sort of safety hazard such a lorry would be on roads covered in snow and ice . 
Our group supports Amendment No 3 and hopes the new version of the directive will come into force promptly . 
