Mr President , Commissioners , many complimentary phrases have been used to describe this directive and I would like to thank Mr Piecyk , but because some developments are of an interim nature , I would like to add a few comments . 
After the directive was discussed in the Commission , I recently asked the Commissioner about non - EU drivers driving within the EU and making use of the way people , drivers , in particular , are inspected during the technical inspections of cars . 
What is happening in effect is the following : drivers who do not have an employment permit in an EU Member State and who do not have a work contract in the third country benefit from the situation in that they drive a car which is registered in a particular country and which subsequently passes all inspections without a hitch , but do so outside the country where they are registered and where they carry out their activities . 
It is precisely in those countries that employment permits and work contracts are not checked up on . 
In other words , I would like to argue against directly including this option in the directive , but I would at any rate recommend further exploration of this option as a secondary matter in order to find a solution to this problem . 
Mr President , Madam Vice - President , ladies and gentlemen , safety on our roads is of great concern to us all . 
Given the ever increasing volume of traffic on Europe ' s roads I am at pains to emphasise the need for vehicles to meet the highest possible technical roadworthiness standards , but also the need to take environmental aspects into account . 
Although - and I should like to say this most emphatically - it is also necessary , if the directive is not only to pay lip service to these ideals , for it to be applied by the Member States and invested with appropriate penalties . 
The best directive will be ineffective in everyday life if it does not provide any penalties for non - compliance or violations . 
I therefore support the amendments providing for guilty parties to be punished , because the operation of motor vehicles , which in principle presents a risk and entails a potential danger to people , must be supervised properly and with the necessary care and expertise . 
In any case we must prevent this from being dealt with thoughtlessly , precisely because this is about a directive which provides for rules not only for heavy goods vehicles but also for commercial vehicles carrying people . 
Time and again we are all severely shaken when there are major accidents which are due purely to technical defects . 
Because of this I am glad that the report is not actually controversial and that Parliament is once again proving to be the driving force in the debate about traffic safety on Europe ' s roads . 
My particular thanks go to all those who work with such dedication in this field in the committee , in the Commission and in the Council . 
Mr President , Commissioner de Palacio , the purpose of the proposal the Commission made in 1998 is to replace the directive concerning annual inspections of commercial vehicles . 
The motion proposes the introduction of spot checks , as vehicles have to be deemed roadworthy between tests too . 
These spot tests may be carried out at the roadside , at ports and harbours or where trucks are parked . 
This is , then , a matter of improving road safety in the EU , which is vital . 
The damage caused by lorries in traffic accidents is , more often than not , considerable and the state of vehicles is very patchy in different parts of Europe , so pan - European legislation and strict compliance with it will be of benefit to each and every person on the road . 
A major cause of concern in the European Union area is the poor state of the trucks coming from Eastern Europe . 
They need to be dealt with strictly . Being from East Karelia , I know that even if they had one light and the wheel brakes on one side working , it would be something . 
The Council ' s common position will improve road safety considerably , and the directive should enter into force as soon as possible . 
In establishing penal systems , however , it is important to realise that penalties must on no account be targeted at the Member State , but the driver or company involved . 
Enlightenment is a good thing , but , unfortunately , only proper penalties have an effect on hypocrites . 
Road safety is a serious matter . 
I recall a tragic accident in Helsinki a few weeks ago in which a wheel that had come off a lorry killed a small child . 
We can never assume too much responsibility when it comes to human life . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , once again I would like to thank the rapporteur , Mr Piecyk , and the corresponding parliamentary committee for the work carried out . 
It is certain that the rapporteur is entirely correct in saying that the title is very long . 
The simplest thing is to talk about the inspection of lorries , which is what we are really discussing , and perhaps we should all think about not only putting the technical title in some of our regulations , but also , in brackets , the colloquial title or one that is more readily comprehensible to our citizens , a matter which I shall transmit to the services and which we shall consider with a view to the future . 
However , on the subject of the proposal , it clearly concerns the roadside inspection of commercial vehicles , both passenger and goods vehicles , with the aim of increasing safety and protecting the environment with regard to road transport within the Community . 
It is undoubtedly intended to create a structure for the quality of maintenance of commercial vehicles in circulation in the Community , and would discourage operators and managers who try to achieve a competitive advantage by using vehicles in an inadequate state of repair . 
The proposal requires that the Member States supplement the annual technical inspection by carrying out spot checks in proportion to the fleet of commercial vehicles in circulation annually on their roads . 
These inspections may be carried out by the roadside , in ports and in other places where vehicles park , or , as is more frequent in the case of public service vehicles , on the operator ' s premises . 
In fact , several States already apply this type of inspection , the so - called ' roadside inspections '  , in the manner laid down in the directive , that is , in a somewhat unexpected manner . 
This may in fact be the best way to effectively monitor the state of the vehicles in circulation on our roads . 
I would like to say that the Commission is aware that Parliament is concerned that this proposal might lead to discrimination against certain transport contractors , or lorries from certain countries or even certain makes of vehicle , and that the intention of the principal recommendation of the rapporteur is for the fines imposed on operators by the Member States to be harmonised as a condition of application of the directive . 
We share this concern , but we consider that Amendment No 2 is too drastic and , in this respect , we would support Amendment No 3 which encompasses the spirit we are all aiming for , and which , at the same time , offers the necessary flexibility . 
We also accept Amendment No 1 , and I would like to refer to what Mr Bouwman said . 
In fact , we are tremendously concerned by the fact that vehicles are being driven in the Union by drivers from third countries , and in particular from candidate countries , who do not have work contracts that conform to Community standards , or the standards of any Community country , but simply obey the standards of these third countries , which are often candidates for accession , or sometimes do not even conform to these standards as the corresponding inspections are not carried out by the said third countries . 
I have therefore written to all the Ministers for Transport of the fifteen countries of the Union to instigate a discussion on the subject , and also to ask for a report on what the situation is in their countries regarding this type of case , and what positive suggestions they can submit so that we can find a solution to this problem , which concerns us greatly , and which could have negative consequences for road safety , which has to be our main concern , and for fair competition , which is also important to us at the Commission . 
To this end , I hope that we can deal with these matters at the next Transport Council at the end of this month , as well as , as Mr Watts has said , all aspects of road safety in general since the Portuguese Presidency proposes this as one of the key matters of its Presidency . 
On the basis that great progress has been made in the past few years , I believe that a great deal still remains to be done , as the death of 42 000 - 43 000 European citizens on the roads is too high a figure and there is still an effort to be made . 
But I would like to say that , with regard to the problem of drivers from third countries , I hope that before the end of the month we shall have a response , and we shall , in any case , handle this within the Council . 
And , in response to some questions or initiatives , I shall be able to reply here in Parliament , either during the plenary session or in committee , and , if not , I hope in any case that we shall shortly be able to make a concrete proposal that enables us , truly and effectively , to combat this type of abuse . 
Once again , I would like to reiterate my appreciation of the quality of work carried out , not only by the rapporteur , but by the committee as a whole . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon . 
Closing of the session
I declare the 1999 - 2000 session closed . 
 ( The sitting was closed at 10 . 41 p . m . ) 
Opening of the session
I declare resumed the 2000 - 2001 session of the European Parliament . 
Agenda
Mr President , the second item on this morning ' s agenda is the recommendation for second reading on cocoa and chocolate products , for which I am the rapporteur . 
Quite by accident I learnt yesterday , at 8 . 30 p . m . , that the vote was to take place at noon today . 
It was however initially scheduled , I thought , for noon tomorrow . 
I have therefore been caught completely off guard by this , and have not even had the chance to draw up the lists of votes and to see whether there are any roll - calls or not . 
You know as well as I do that this matter is quite controversial and well reported in the media . 
I have been a Member of this Parliament for ten years and I have always been given notice , in my capacity as rapporteur , of any changes to the order of voting . 
I should prefer for this vote to be held tomorrow . 
It would suit me , personally , and I do not think anyone would have any objection , since it is a relatively brief vote . 
Mr President , we do not have anything against postponing the vote . 
However , I insist on the other scheduled votes , particularly those on the Lisbon Summit , going ahead tomorrow . 
We have nothing against postponement , with this proviso . 
The competent services have informed me that tomorrow ' s list of subjects will be rather lengthy . 
Mr President , like Mr Lannoye , late last night I too was faced with the fact that the vote on my report at second reading is planned for 12 . 00 p . m . 
The groups have emphatically asked me to urge you not to let the vote take place at 12 . 00 p . m . but tomorrow instead , as they have not had the chance to apply for split and roll - call votes . 
After all , it came as a complete surprise that the vote was planned for 12 . 00 p . m . 
I would therefore ask , also on behalf of many others , to postpone the vote until tomorrow . 
Mr Blokland , the officials of the competent services have informed me that your report will automatically be put to the vote tomorrow . 
I now ask the House whether it agrees to postpone the vote on the Lannoye report until tomorrow . 
If we are all in agreement , that is what the arrangement will be . 
Annual legislative programme ( continuation ) 
The next item is the continuation of the debate on the European Commission ' s annual legislative programme for the year 2000 . 
Mr President , Mr President of the Commission , ladies and gentlemen , if the citizens of Europe are looking for this kind of Europe , then Brussels , and especially the Commission , is where they will look . 
Being a parliamentarian , that does not please me , but I have to accept the situation , for the moment at least , and until further notice . 
But this also means that the Commission faces an immense challenge . 
If you want to bring about the great turning point you mentioned , Mr President of the Commission , then you had better make a start on this damn quickly . 
In the light of this responsibility , Mr President of the Commission , when you made your last speech here in this House , you proposed concentrating more heavily on core tasks . 
This could also be described in terms of carrying out or implementing the subsidiarity principle . 
However , at the same time , we must be clear about the fact that this must not amount to offloading tasks that are too complicated and difficult for the Commission . 
We must also be under no illusions , Mr President of the Commission , as to the fact that we must get straight down to work on these criteria and the core tasks I mentioned . 
We cannot wait for a White Paper , for the Commission already has far too much in the pipeline which might have to be looked at in this light , whilst other matters will have to be implemented more quickly and in a more comprehensible manner . 
What distinguishes us Social Democrats from other groups in this House is not so much the multitude of tasks and the number of proposals that are to come , as the direction they are heading in . 
We want to reinforce Europe ' s role on the international stage in a clear and unequivocal manner , just as we want to increase its competitiveness . 
Above all , we must aim to make Europe more socially aware , to create a Europe of equal opportunities , and to increase security and quality of life within Europe . 
That said , we do not want to bureaucratise Europe and neither do we want to centralise it . 
That is not how we envisage Europe to be ! 
If you make these your goals , Mr President of the Commission , then we will be behind you every step of the way . 
Moving onto another point : the Commission has passed a long list of its intentions to Parliament . 
We decided , in our wisdom , to draft a resolution which may not be quite as long but which provides you with a whole host of proposals and some counter - proposals . 
Exchanging lists in this way is not an ideal way to engage in dialogue . 
Therefore , in future , we should think of something different . 
I would ask you , Mr President of the Commission , to put an assessment of your successes and failures at the head of your next programme , and to comment on the extent to which you have actually achieved that which you set out to do , so that we can both engage in dialogue which is improved , constructive and ideally suited to the purpose . 
That would seem to me to make a lot more sense than the course of action we are taking this week - not for the first time , but hopefully the last ! 
Mr President of the Commission , I would just like to pick up again on your expression " decisive year "  . 
We must all make it our business to follow the debates on Europe in the various individual Member States , and not just in those we happen to come from . 
In fact , it is a constant source of alarm to me that so far we have failed in the course of this debate , to convince the general public of the need for this kind of Europe , and , in particular , we have failed to convey to them that the key to developing a global outlook is to make Europe strong , and this strong Europe must make provisions ; not for everything , but certainly for matters that lend added value to Europe . 
It is not about preventing globalisation , we would not succeed there in any case . 
The only way forward is to form this global outlook on the basis of our own values and diversity . 
To this end , therefore , we must work together to bring about a significant improvement in communication , which is something you yourself mentioned . 
You are in the process of drafting a communication strategy for the enlargement of the European Union . 
But , Mr President of the Commission , we will not reach the real turning point until we manage to put our heads together on every single legislative proposal and work out how to convince the general public of the need for the proposal in question . 
If we do not manage to upgrade our channels of communication in this way then our common goal , to wit , a higher turnout at the next European elections , will not be within our sights . 
This would be a shame , not just for us MEPs - who may no longer be here in that case - but for Europe as well . 
Mr President , my Group would like to welcome the annual legislative programme . 
However , we have some concerns about the process . 
I came to this procedure as a relatively new Member of this House . It was with some incredulity that I found myself faced with these various draft resolutions from each of the groups , all of them very much resembling shopping lists of differing lengths and ingredients . 
Indeed , to carry the metaphor further and using the English usage , if we were going to make a meal from these it would be rather long and rather indigestible . 
I understand that it has been the normal tradition to obediently produce these lists . 
Now , I am not particularly radical or revolutionary , but it seemed to my colleagues that this process lacked something , especially at a time when we are trying to reconnect Europe with its citizens , when we want them to be clear about what we are doing here . 
There has been much talk about concentrating on core tasks and of achieving better quality of European legislation rather than more quantity . 
All this sits rather uneasily with endless lists . 
With this in mind , we produced a one - page resolution highlighting key areas . 
However , this has not reached the compromise resolution , so we wish now to put down a clear marker for the future about how this process should be conducted . 
We should like to suggest that , since this is a very important process and moment in our legislative cycle , and to enable the Commission and Parliament to approach it in a constructive way , the annual state of the Union address could be combined with a resolution from Parliament on key political priorities and then go to the committees for more detailed debate . 
This would get away from the shopping - list approach and give more political focus . 
It would allow Parliament to participate fully in the process , not just by swapping shopping lists with you . 
It is because we want to give more purpose and prominence to this procedure that the ELDR intends not to sign the current eight - page list - not because we object to the contents , but because we think this is in danger of becoming an annual ritual performance without substance and real meaning . 
What we would like to do is catch the imagination of Europe ' s citizens . 
Mr President , I shall not repeat the general criticism we expressed during the previous sitting of Parliament regarding the orientations of the European Commission ' s work . 
The programme submitted to us for this year is generous , to say the least . 
It contains some positive elements and some less positive elements . 
I should like to draw attention to one area that I feel is rather deficient , the area of social policy . 
This would not be too serious if significant progress had been made during the five previous years , but this is not the case . 
Indeed , in terms of social policy , the Commission and Parliament have the opportunity to promote many things . 
According to the terms of Chapter I of Title 11 of the Treaty , in particular , I am thinking specifically of problems to do with working conditions and improving the working environment . 
Regarding , in particular , the health and safety of workers , we are now governed by the terms of a directive dating from 1989 . 
In my opinion and in the opinion of my Group , this directive is due for re - evaluation , particularly in the light of a significant study published in 1997 by the Dublin Foundation . 
This shows a general decline in working conditions in a number of important sectors . 
This needs looking into and I would like to see the Commission investigate the matter thoroughly and assess what needs to be amended in this directive in order to improve the situation . 
I shall not go into these in depth . I would now like to take a few moments to examine the process itself , in connection with the legislative programme , i . e . the tabling of the programme and the execution of the programme . 
In this respect , I should like to make two firm requests on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance . 
I should have liked to present these as demands from Parliament but it is enough , today , for them to be firm requests . 
Firstly , when a European Parliament resolution has been adopted , particularly within the framework of a Parliament initiative , it would seem to me to be democratic for the Commission to follow up this type of request properly within a reasonable time period . 
For example , in the environmental field , we have a White Paper on civil liability in environmental matters . 
This is an important step forwards , but let me remind you all the same that this White Paper is the follow - up to a Parliament resolution adopted in 1994 , that is to say , six years ago . 
And after the White Paper we shall probably have to wait a long time before we have the directive . 
This shows just how slow the procedure is and , in order to give reasons for this slowness , I feel it would be important to have an interim report . 
My second point : when a legislative proposal is announced within the legislative programme and is not achieved by the end of the current year , then we should know the reasons why . 
Let me give one example of this . 
Today , a proposal for a directive on electrical and electronic waste has been announced . 
This proposal has already been put forward several times , but has never been tabled . 
We know that this is due to pressure from the American Government which is threatening to start proceedings within the WTO , but it would be appropriate , fair and democratic if the Commission were to explain to us just what was going on behind the scenes and why it is dragging its feet before tabling this directive . 
President Prodi , allow me to express my apprehension and alarm at the line taken in the Work Programme for 2000 , a year which you described as a decisive year , and not only because of the lack of genuinely innovative proposals contained therein . 
No , what gives real cause for concern is the semi - ideological approach of this Work Programme , its self - subordinating , unquestioning adoption of the American model , that introverted , robotic model of development which disturbs the sleep even of insiders such as the Chairman of the Federal Reserve , Alan Greenspan . 
This programme is devoid of any autonomous vision of the Europe of today and tomorrow , making no contrast between the two , and it is impervious , if not blind , to elements which are reawakening the conscience of many of your European colleagues : seminal events such as those in Seattle , which you are appear to be determined to see repeated at all costs , or the repeated arrogant vetoes imposed by Executive Board on the candidates for the Managing Directorship of the International Monetary Fund , which have collapsed only in the past few hours under European pressure for the appointment of Mr Horst Köhler . 
Faced with the American steamroller , you commit yourself to doing your utmost to subdue and eliminate transatlantic disputes , in the name of a hypothetical partnership between the global superpower and a Europe afflicted with lack of vision , purposefully induced by incessant lobbying from quarters such as the RT . 
I do not have time to dwell on the other elusive , moderate - too moderate - features of your programme : the environment , health , justice , transport , security , the reckless enlargement of the Union which provoked criticism from your predecessor , Jacques Delors , the development of the on - line economy , which is one of the many universal remedies for unemployment , and the protection of citizen consumers rather than consumer citizens . 
President Prodi , a friendly word of advice . 
We live in ' the best of all possible worlds '  : threatening clouds of stars and stripes are filling the skies of Europe . In the words of Charles de Gaulle to General Leclerc , when he had just liberated this beautiful city of Strasbourg : Mr Prodi , préparez votre défense , c ' est la défense de l ' Europe . 
