Mr President , I welcome the broad thrust of the proposals published by the Commission in its annual legislative programme for the year 2000 . 
The most important issues that will be addressed this year will be the reform of the EU decision - making procedures , so that the enlargement process can take place in a streamlined and structured manner . 
I support the enlargement of the Union , but such a process cannot take place until key EU institutions , including the Commission , the Council , and of course Parliament , reform their internal decision - making operations . 
As a Member of the Parliament from the constituency of Connaught Ulster in Ireland , a peripheral part of this Union , I strongly believe in real and tangible representation for smaller Member States within the EU structures . 
At present , the five larger Member States have two posts within the European Commission and there is one each for the smaller Member States . 
Whatever the reform , it is vitally important that smaller Member States retain their right to nominate a Member of the Commission . 
Undoubtedly , the European Council , representing the fifteen governments , will have to reform its structures . 
From an Irish perspective , I strongly believe that Member State governments must have a veto over tax changes at EU level . 
No changes at present can be agreed at EU level concerning tax policies without the unanimous support of all EU Member States . 
I believe this is an important right , which should be left in the domain of national Member States . 
In my own country , the tax regime is quite innovative in many ways . 
The tax burden on middle and lower income workers has been steadily reduced , while sensible tax breaks have been given to encourage business enterprises . 
This cannot be said of many of the other Member States . 
Any proposal to give the European Council the power of qualified majority voting on justice and home affairs would be , I believe , very unwise . 
In conclusion , can I say that I am very pleased that the President has , this morning , referred to fisheries . 
He said he believes it is lagging behind - that real progress must be made in the year 2002 , because fisheries are established in areas where there is no alternative source of employment . 
Of course we want to ensure by the year 2002 that the countries that suffered most when the common fisheries policy was put in place in 1983 will in future receive a fair and equitable share of the resources . 
In conclusion , can I say that on a broader level it is important that the European Union , as an economic entity , does not fall behind in the global search for e - commerce opportunities . 
The Commission must support educational and training programmes , to ensure that business structures take account of the opportunities which can be secured from the Internet and e - commerce in general . 
An information technology revolution is certainly upon us . We cannot be passengers when these changes take place . 
We must be leaders of our business communities and of our educational institutions , so that information technology initiatives are incorporated into all key social and economic sectors of our society . 
Mr President , Mr Prodi ' s Commission will not last for five years because people will not , in the longer term , put up with detailed regulation from Brussels . 
It is perhaps difficult to know who is going to provide the salutary shock , and when . 
That is often the case with historical new departures . 
Coincidences play their part and minor matters can suddenly loom large because small things come to symbolise what is fundamental . 
The fundamental paradox is that the Union identifies itself as being more and more democratic , at the same time as democracy is being quite systematically cut back in our countries . 
One day , the voters will echo the remark of the little boy in Hans Christian Andersen ' s tale ,  ' The Emperor ' s New Clothes '  ,  ' Yes , but he is not wearing anything '  . 
Last month , Mr Prodi talked of a radical decentralisation of the Union ' s activities . 
In contrast , the five - year plan involves radical centralisation , through which responsibility for new legislative areas - of which there are many - will pass from the national and regional parliaments of the Member States to Mr Prodi ' s Commission in Brussels , with legislation being adopted on the basis of 62 out of 87 votes in the Council . 
It is Orwellian to a T . Under the heading of ' decentralisation '  , centralisation is taking place . 
Under the heading of ' democracy '  , democracy is being dismantled . 
Under the heading of ' greater transparency '  , the Commission is proposing an arrangement through which documents that are at present available for public inspection will be locked away . 
When he took up office , Mr Prodi solemnly promised - before our Group and here in the House - a completely new approach to transparency . 
We were to be able to have access to any document , once the Commission had given it to others . 
The elected representatives of the people would no longer be the last to be informed . 
We should no longer have to sit in the committee rooms looking at the students from the Permanent Representations , in possession of documents to which we ourselves have no access . 
We should no longer have to tolerate a situation in which the employers in the European Union or the farming industry ' s COPA can consult documents which we ourselves cannot obtain . 
It is fundamental to a democracy that the executive should serve the electorate and the electorate ' s representatives . 
In the EU , the legislature has been transferred to the executive . 
The elected representatives of the people are awarded monopolies on power , while fundamental documents from the decision - making process are kept secret . 
At the Conference of the Presidents , we decided to summon the ombudsman and Mr Prodi to a discussion concerning transparency . 
I hope that Mr Prodi will say :  ' I am sorry , I was not aware that my officials were doing the opposite of what I had promised . 
I stand by my words . Here is my signature to the transparency that was promised '  . 
Thank you , if there is , in fact , anything to say thank - you for . 
Mr President , dismayed as I am by the fact that 14 Member States have prejudged Austria , I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Commission to extend its ambitious programme on account of the unfair treatment Austria has been subjected to . 
I would particularly like to thank Mr Poettering for what he had to say in this connection . 
In the run - up to the Intergovernmental Conference , special emphasis is being placed on the European Union ' s ability to function , which is in every sense pre - requisite to the success of the European unification process . 
However , in refusing to talk - albeit only bilaterally - and thereby causing a breakdown in communication , the 14 EU partner States are putting this self - same " ability to function " at great risk . 
The Commission must not stand idly by in a situation of this kind . 
It has a duty to see to it that the solidarity enshrined in the Treaties is upheld . 
With this in mind , I would ask you , President Prodi , to get personally involved in setting up a crisis meeting between the Heads of Government of Austria and the 14 EU partner States , so as to bring about détente and normalisation of relations . 
In acknowledgement of my responsibility as a parliamentarian , I myself sent a letter to this effect to all the Heads of Government yesterday . 
Mr President , I would first of all like to thank the President of the Commission , Mr Prodi , for his work programme . 
I concur with the remarks made that there should be more focus , but also that it should be better tailored to the five - year plan . 
It seems as if we are talking about two different documents . 
The first chapter of the work programme is entitled :  " Europe , its neighbours and the world " and rightly so . 
I have permission to quote one of the first sentences from this chapter :  " the Union must be active on the regional and world stage . " 
But in order to be able to play this role , it is vital to develop a practical form of cooperation between the Council ' s High Representative , Mr Solana , the Commission and the European Parliament in order to strengthen democratic control and democratic accountability . 
In our opinion , it is also essential that the Commission ' s role be reinforced in the field of foreign policy . 
We want to project a much stronger , united front as far as this European foreign policy is concerned . 
But the instruments involved are also an important factor . They help in the analysis of non - military crises and help us to act on them quickly . 
If we look at Mozambique , for example , how long have we had to wait before real action could be taken ? 
This is about very concrete issues , such as transport capacity . 
To this end , we need swifter coordination within the European Union . 
Take the enormous cattle losses Mongolia has suffered . 
We know that there are funds available in TACIS and ECHO within the European Union . 
But why are we not helping out ? 
This is because there are too many bureaucratic hurdles . 
The EU ' s overseas dealings will need to be better tuned to our need for a stronger , future European foreign policy . 
In short , operational implementation is central . 
Relations with Russia are of vital importance . 
We find ourselves in a situation in which we cannot afford to fall behind the Council of Europe , which has levelled criticism at Russia concerning its Chechnya policy . 
It is extremely depressing to note that freedom of press is still not guaranteed in Russia . 
We had invited the journalist , Mr Babitsky , to visit us next Thursday , but this was vetoed by the Russian authorities . 
I hope that the European Commission too , will protest in the strongest terms to the Russian authorities . 
Mr President , Mr Prodi , when a parliament discusses legislative priorities then everything becomes a priority . 
As far as I am concerned , the top priorities are : employment - and , consequently , economic growth - and quality of life - and therefore environmental protection , food safety and consumer rights . 
I should now like to make a few comments on economic and social matters . 
One of the Commission ' s initiatives , which deserves a high priority , is the e - Europe initiative . 
Yesterday we discussed the Lisbon Summit for the economic and social revival of Europe . 
Shared objectives for growth in order to enable us to move towards full employment are something I have hoped and prayed for . 
Full employment does not mean the total absence of any form of unemployment . There will always be some cyclical unemployment , with workers looking to change jobs , young people entering the labour market . 
But full employment will be restored when there are no longer any long - term unemployed and when every young person is offered at least one training course within at least six months of entering the job market . 
It is possible if we invest to a greater extent in what Mr Guterres yesterday called ' human capital '  , i . e . basic education plus , most importantly , lifelong training . 
In this context , the e - Europe initiative comes at just the right moment . 
In future , the computer - related content of jobs is going to be increasingly marked , but we have a lack of workers qualified in this area , as do the United States . 
That is why the American Senate has made available a quota of almost 500 000 visas for a period of four years , reserved for highly qualified immigrant workers . 
What we should be doing is educating our own intelligent young people and keeping them in Europe . 
A Commission document has just shown that half of the young people who pursue postgraduate studies in the United States go on to stay there . 
In order to keep our brainpower , to attract the best brains and to train them further , we must make massive investments in research and development . 
The only two European countries who invest a greater share of their GDP in research and development than the United States , i . e . Finland and Sweden , are also the only two European countries who are able to compete on equal terms with the Americans in terms of communication technologies . 
Surely this provides the rest of Europe with an example to be followed ? 
In Lisbon , should we not establish a sort of technological convergence criterion requiring Member States , for example , within a five year period , to move towards a rate of expenditure on research and development equivalent to at least 2 . 5 % of their GDP ? This is still less than the level currently attained by the United States ? 
In this connection , I should also like to applaud Commissioner Philippe Busquin ' s initiative to create a European research area . 
Improved living conditions , employment and the quality of employment will continue to be intimately linked to our ability to make European research more dynamic . 
Along the same lines , a proper European patent , the development of venture capital and support for young businesses are also of crucial importance . 
Last night President Prodi reiterated my expression regarding Europe ' s lack of future prospects . 
I am afraid that he misunderstood what I meant to say : I did not accuse the Portuguese Presidency or the Commission of lacking insight , but I did stress the fear of the future experienced by many of our fellow citizens in this radically changing world . 
We all know that we are living through a paradigm shift with the advent of the information society and the development society . 
But , in a world where 1 . 5 billion people are still living without electricity , providing every citizen in the world with access to the Internet society is not going to be achieved in the immediate future . 
The most significant challenge for the human race is to avoid the separation between information - rich countries and information - poor countries , to prevent the advent of societies where , in the felicitous phrase coined by my friend , Claude Desama , the digital divide will be the new social divide . 
The annual legislative programme is the most concrete manifestation of the European Commission ' s key constitutional and political power , namely the exclusive right of initiative . 
Such power must at all times be rigorously justified and clearly explained . 
Yet this year ' s work programme , as in all previous years , does not provide detailed justification for each of the multitude of new measures proposed . 
A 15 - page general summary does not exactly do justice to the 500 initiatives cited in the annex . 
In future , the ELDR will therefore insist that there is clear justification for , and specialised parliamentary debate on , all measures announced in the work programme . 
In particular , we will be looking for evidence that each new proposal has been properly tested against the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and we will be looking for sector - specific debates in the European Parliament ' s own specialised committees . 
In other words , it is now high time for a comprehensive overhaul of the somewhat antiquated way in which this crucial programming document is developed and debated in future . 
Mr President , I would like to thank the President of the Commission for giving us two speeches within the space of 24 hours . 
Last night he clearly pointed out that we have the prospect of a successful European economy ahead of us for the next two or three years and quite clearly , if we have unexpectedly higher - than - normal growth , then that will help us in the endeavours of this annual legislative programme . 
The Commission President ' s speech this morning raises three concerns in my mind . 
The first relates to subsidiarity , where we feel strongly in our group , as the Liberals have just said , that we need to have a test for every single proposal put forward to show that it is in the European interest . 
Subsidiarity must be seen to apply : it must be clear that we are not legislating where it is not necessary to do so . 
The second concern relates to budgets . 
Given the higher growth rate than was predicted in the financial perspectives , which are based on 2 . 5 % growth , we can see our way forward to taking slightly different measures on budgets than we would otherwise have done . 
On behalf of my group I would like to caution the Commission not to go ahead at this stage with shifting agricultural expenditure from category 1 to category 4 . 
In Britain in particular we have a farming industry which is in desperate straits and wants to see some assistance given to certain sectors of agriculture : shifting money for agriculture from one part of the budget to another at this stage would be to give them a wrong message . 
Lastly , a word of caution about the question of information . 
This is what bedevilled the relationship between our Parliament and the previous Commission : the fact that we , under the Treaties , have access and the right of access to all information in principle . 
It looks as if we are running into difficulties with our framework agreement . 
I therefore stress that , if we want to have the Commission and Parliament working together , we have to be able to come up with a solution to this problem as soon as possible and not to have limitations on documents which are available to citizens . 
As Mr Bonde rightly pointed out , we should have a European Union where there is a free flow of information from the bureaucracy to all our citizens . 
Mr President of the Commission , when you entered upon your duties , you said that the Commission would be characterised by openness . 
A lot of other people have also said that here today . 
But what is the situation now ? 
Why are the Commission ' s press conferences no longer being broadcast directly via satellite television so that everyone in all parts of Europe can follow what is happening ? 
I hope that Mr Prodi is listening . 
Regarding your letter to Mrs Fontaine about the ombudsman , Mr Prodi , do you consider that the ombudsman is bound by any principle of loyal cooperation between the institutions ? 
Where , in that case , do you find a legal basis for this view , and do you believe that such a principle can suppress the ombudsman ' s right to express himself freely in the press ? 
I also want to provide the following piece of information about your letter to the Wall Street Journal , in which you refer to a seminar in April on openness as proof that the regulation concerned has been prepared openly . 
That seminar was , in fact , organised by the European Federation of Journalists and by MEPs Lööw , Thors , Hautala and others , but the proposal which was discussed there had nothing to do with the current proposal , which has been prepared very much in secret . 
The main question , however , is that of whether the principle of loyal cooperation should take precedence over the right to express oneself . 
Where is the basis for a principle in accordance with which you could suppress this right and make such demands upon the ombudsman ? 
Mr President , the report you have presented is ambitious and complex , and I will only touch on a few points . 
One : I cannot be other than content with your decision to start focusing on the Mediterranean , both because of the contribution to the Middle East peace process and because it will salvage and strengthen the historical and political ties which unite the countries of Southern Europe . 
We consider that , with the implementation of the geo - political processes , the Mediterranean border is just important as eastward enlargement , which both Parliament and the Commission are working on . 
Two : the internal market . 
Working in the European Parliament , we can see that harmonisation of the existing legislation on civil law is essential . 
In all probability , we ought to start work in the field of administrative law as well . 
Moreover , every day , we become more aware of the need for a common legal system coordinating the different legal systems of the Member States . 
Three : the preparatory documents . 
I can only add my voice to the requests to limit the use of preparatory documents , which are presented several times by several different people in the European Parliament . 
Despite the fact that they do , on the whole , make for a more in - depth debate , green papers , white papers and statements also have complex , problematic side - effects , as , more often than not , they prolong legislative action in matters in which timing is absolutely essential . 
Lastly : the Commission ' s Work Programme seems to overlook two sectors which are in need of particular attention from the European institutions , especially in the light of the developments constantly taking place in e - commerce . 
I feel that the Commission should submit proposals on the out - of - court settlement of disputes over on - line contracts and on amendments to the Directive on distance contracts , in order to provide increasingly effective consumer protection . 
Mr President , with regard to fishing , I am not going to go into the details of the Commission ' s legislative proposals . 
However , I would like to hear a clear commitment from the Commission that it will seek a solution for the speedy transposition into Community law of the recommendations of the regional and international fishing organisations . 
Mr President , in the last plenary part - session , regarding the Gallagher report on the recommendations of the ICCAT on bluefin tuna in the Mediterranean , we had the opportunity to debate this issue of Commission delays , which are becoming a very serious problem . 
Although these recommendations will become binding on a particular date , their absence in Community legislation means that the fleet is not complying with the measures and may lead to the initiation of infringement proceedings against the European Union . 
Delays in transposition are an endemic problem in the Commission . 
For example , we have been waiting since 1996 for the incorporation into Community legislation of the ban on landings from Honduras and Belize , or , for example , since 1998 for the control of the fishing capacity for albacore tuna in Community waters . 
The Commission is always accusing Member States of not transposing its decisions and directives into their national legislation , while it is doing exactly the same thing on an international level . 
It is clear that the proposal presented by the Commission on the communication on the reform of international organisations , with a view to speeding up the process , tries to separate the legislative processes both of Parliament and of the Council . 
From the point of view of this institution , there are serious doubts as to whether this is the best way to resolve this problem . 
I hope that President Prodi will now commit himself to resolving this problem once and for all , and that , in any event , Parliament will always be connected with the legislative procedure for incorporating the recommendations of international fishing organisations into Community legislation . 
Mr President , yesterday , after the intervention of the President - in - Office of the Council , which had painted an optimistic picture of Community development , the President of the Commission , Mr Prodi , took the precaution of pointing out that the economic development we are experiencing presented the enormous difficulty that it was accompanied by an increase in the social marginalisation suffered by the European Community . 
Mr Schulz has just referred to this phenomenon , speaking on behalf of the Socialists , because we are currently running the risk that , as a consequence of the liberalisation of the Community economy within the framework of the globalisation of the world economy , we may see a situation of greater social differences and the disappearance of the European social model , which we are so proud of . 
Mr President , the previous Commission worked under the motto " do less in order to do better "  , as opposed to the supposedly active approach of the Delors Commission . 
As we know , it is a question of quality rather than quantity , which was also mentioned by both Mr Schulz and Mr Swoboda , speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group . 
The question is in which direction this Commission is heading . 
I hope that this Prodi Commission is not one which does less in order to do it better , but rather one which does what has to be done . 
While the Delors Commission took us from the Single European Act to the Union Treaty and an extensive enlargement of the European Community , I hope that the Prodi Commission will be the Commission of a social Europe , the Commission which ensures that economic development does not go hand in hand with social discrimination , but rather with social progress . 
To this end , I hope that the Commission will bear in mind the points of view being expressed in the European Parliament . 
As the President of the Commission knows , the current Union Treaty provides for a sort of relationship between the European Parliament and the Commission , whereby , although responsibility for legislative initiative lies with the Commission , it must take account of the positions of Parliament in drawing up legislation . 
In this respect , I would like to refer to the codification of Community law . 
At the moment , Community law is an impenetrable jungle , absolutely incomprehensible to the citizens of the Community , including those whose profession involves the exercise of the law . 
Until now , Community law has developed on the basis of a form of casuistry similar to that of the medieval legislators , and we therefore lack any kind of system , specifically with regard to civil law , competition and the protection of consumers and intellectual property . 
Finally , Mr President , I would like to remind you of a text which is mentioned in the Commission communication . 
It is point 2 ( 3 ) on the statute of the outermost regions , which is to be implemented by the Commission . 
Today the Commission is to speak of the first document in this field , and I hope that , in doing so , it will take account of the requirements of these outermost regions of the Community . 
Mr President , the President of the Commission will not be surprised if I speak to him about the internal market . 
So as not to repeat what has already been said , in particular what has been said by Mr Fiori , who I agree with , I will refer to another central point of the debate , i . e . the reform of the Commission . 
What has the reform of the Commission to do with the internal market ? 
The answer is a lot . 
Mr President of the Commission , on reading your White Paper on the reform of the Commission , it is clearly apparent that the guiding principle , the philosophy behind this reform , is something very vague which we cannot accept in this Parliament . 
This guiding principle is mainly the protection of the Community ' s financial interests . 
That is clearly of concern to all of us , but it is only a starting point . 
From there on , the Commission must begin to work , and must fulfil its obligations in accordance with the Treaty . 
Allow me to give you an example , since the speaking time allotted to me does not give me much opportunity to expand on this idea . 
Let us consider the intended reform of the infringement procedure . 
What is the intention there ? 
It is simply to administrate the existing resources on each level , instead of hearing this Parliament ' s demand that we should create a genuine administrative procedural law for ensuring legal certainty , which is necessary from the point of view of the European citizen , that is to say , from the point of view of the people who may have recourse to this infringement procedure . 
It is simply said that this administrative procedural law will not be created , but rather demands will be selected . 
How can this be ? 
How can these things be selected in a purely arbitrary way . 
From the point of view of this Parliament , this type of arrangement cannot be allowed . We understand that the Commission has to be reformed . 
We agree with the objectives of this reform . 
However , it should not lead to the abandonment of the great momentum of European construction , for the sake of protecting the Community ' s financial interests , however important we may all agree that that is . The Treaty obliges the Commission , primarily , to provide that momentum . 
Thank you , Mr Prodi , for your presentation and your documentation . 
Congratulations on using the Internet for the general public - a very good idea . 
I will start with trade . 
We agree with you that we need a rules - based trading system . 
It is essential . 
Seattle failed because the United States , in particular , appeared unable to grasp the legitimacy of policies such as environmental protection , the preservation of rural communities through the common agricultural policy , animal welfare , health concerns and social rights . 
It displayed incredible insensitivity to the legitimate concerns of the developing world and , frankly , the developing world has little so far to thank the WTO for . 
We expect the European Union to continue negotiations , maintaining our strong positions on all these issues and using our links with countries in the developing world to ensure that the next round is a fair round . 
Please , can we have detailed proposals in the next three months about how this will happen . 
Innovation and knowledge - very appropriate for a new century . 
How much innovation has taken place in the Commission , or indeed in the Parliament may I say ? 
We had a White Paper on innovation some years ago - what has happened since ? 
One thing I would like to say very strongly is that we are very concerned in follow - up , not simply in excellent communications , which we welcome , but in follow - up , follow - up , follow - up ! ! ! ! 
We have under way the Fifth Research Framework Programme - what has happened to what was learned in the Fourth ? 
What is the dissemination for the new ideas , the new products , the new comparisons of socio - economic systems ? 
Follow - up again , please . 
We welcome incidentally the formation of a European research area which you and Commissioner Busquin have put forward . 
This is an excellent way in which to begin the century . 
I welcome the forthcoming communication on enterprise , but I hope that past work will also be looked at before we go ahead with more . 
I will now use a tremendous cliché truism -  ' our greatest resource in the European Union is our people ' . 
Is it not shameful that large Member States like my own and Germany cannot supply the number of people skilled in information technology ? 
Is it not disgraceful that they are having to attract people from countries where those skills are needed ? 
It is a disgrace and I hope that you will take it up when you look at legislation . 
A further shocking waste of resources , Commissioner , is that women in technical , scientific and information technology fields are squandering their skills . 
I hope there will be a follow - up to the Science White Paper . 
Mr President , the internal reform of the Commission has begun . 
We welcome that ! 
This is not the first attempt to turn the Commission into a world - class public service , but we , Mr Prodi , wish to believe in the sincerity and resolve of your promise to this House . 
For the moment we have a series of measures and a White Paper . 
You are examining it with the members of the Council and with the civil service unions and finally , this Parliament will offer its support and will cooperate with you in this great objective of making the European Commission the best administration in the world . 
Go for it ! 
However , I would like to point out one fault in the document . 
It lacks an analysis of the reasons for the failure of the previous system , and Mr Kinnock should have carried it out because he is an expert in the field , having worked in the Commission for five years . 
For example , there previously were punitive measures or measures for assessing the merits of the civil servants , but , Mr Prodi , they were not used . 
The officials responsible , including the Commissioners , did not make use of these measures , of these recourses which existed before . 
Now that we are establishing new measures , how do we know they will be used ? 
Only you know the answer to this secret . 
The lack of motivation amongst excellent civil servants is serious . 
We must take action and the example should come from above . 
The reform of the Commission , Mr Prodi , should not only protect the financial interests of the Community . 
Far more resources are lost through an ineffective and unmotivated administration . 
Furthermore , we also have to accept that officials who take responsibility and risks may make mistakes . 
You said in your speech that you prefer to make mistakes rather than fail to act . 
Go for it , Mr Prodi . 
Your task must be an historic task . 
You are not the first to try it . 
We hope that you succeed . 
Mr President , it is interesting that Mr Prodi has presented today a work programme ; however , our agenda says that we are having a debate on a legislative programme . 
Looking at it from the point of view of social and employment policy we certainly do not have a legislative programme before us . 
In fact we have not had a legislative programme for several years now . 
What we have had instead is a process of consolidation and the development of certain convergence processes such as that developed and launched at Luxembourg . 
We welcome the Luxembourg procedure . 
We hope it will be deepened , strengthened and extended to other areas such as convergence in social protection . 
But does that mean that we have done the job in terms of legislation in the social area ? 
I think not . 
There are a number of areas where we need to update and modernise the social legislation we have adopted in the past . 
With the deepening and strengthening of the internal market and globalisation we are seeing an increasing number of mergers , take - overs and transfers within the European Union . 
That , to me , says that we need to look back at the whole framework of legislation we developed largely in the 1970s in this area - on transfers , collective redundancies , insolvency , and latterly on works councils . 
We need to modernise and strengthen that legislation , not in order to stop globalisation or the deepening of the internal market - of course not - but in order to make sure that we manage the changes these things bring , through a spirit of partnership in all of our workplaces , large and small , within the European Union . 
That means that we need to pursue with vigour the general framework on information and consultation at work . 
In the health and safety field as well , there is a need to update and modernise the legislation we adopted in the past : the pregnant women at work directive , five years overdue for review ; the noise directive of 1986 , ten years overdue for review ; a number of directives that need to be radically updated and modernised . 
But is it just about updating ? 
No . 
We do not need any new great raft of social legislation , but there are areas that have not been addressed . 
We have outstanding promises for legislation on homeworking , on teleworking ; we have the yawning gap of social security in atypical work that has been outstanding for almost a decade now ; we have the promise of a specific directive on muscular - skeletal injuries outstanding from the last medium - term Social Action Programme . 
There are other areas . 
I had a woman come to see me recently , called Mrs Angela Elliot Mathis , working for Lucent Technologies . 
She was head - hunted into the company at a very high level to work as a senior manager and a board member . 
She had worked in a range of European countries for high technology companies . 
Thirteen months into the job she was dismissed without notice and without reason . 
She still has no reason for the dismissal . 
The remarkable thing is that she has no protection in either Belgian law - she was working in Belgium - or European law . 
Without that sort of protection people will not take the opportunity to live , move and work wherever they can within the European Union . 
These are the gaps we need to plug . 
Let us do it in the new medium - term Social Action Programme . 
Mr President , I want to highlight the areas of the work programme which affect directly the work of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism . 
With regard to regional policy , my group would like to see the Commission ensure the full application of the partnership principle at all levels of programming of the Structural Funds . 
We , along with other groups in this Parliament , are still waiting for the Commission to present a proposal laying down the practical arrangements for the implementation of the code of conduct that would facilitate cooperation and proper scrutiny . 
When , Mr President , will the Commission go further on spatial planning and submit new proposals to develop the decision taken at the informal Council meetings , notably at Potsdam and Tampere ? 
Regarding transport and tourism , I and my group welcome the proposals reinforcing transport safety although we need more concrete proposals on road safety and in particular , the issue of blood - alcohol levels and speed limits . 
I also welcome the ongoing commitment to the Galileo project and the review of the TENs strategy , especially with its highlight on the railway sector , a sector which we believe to be very important indeed . 
However , I have to say to you that my group deplores the fact that several dossiers at this moment are blocked in Council . 
We also want progress on both the working time directive and the slot allocation at airport directive , as well as measures to end the misery in air traffic control delays in Europe at this moment . 
We are also concerned , President Prodi , at the lack of proposals concerning the tourism sector , a sector in which so many of our citizens work . 
I regret that transport issues do not appear to have been taken seriously into account in the enlargement chapter and would encourage the Commission to present proposals to ensure better coordination between structural actions and instruments and the PHARE and TACIS programmes . 
I also want to insist that Parliament ' s views and wishes on postal services , often stated in this chamber , are taken fully into account in any new proposals . 
Whilst I am grateful to Mr Prodi for outlining the Commission ' s work programme this morning , I have to say that in the areas of regional policy , transport and tourism , the programme is more notable for what is missing than for what is in it , and I would hope that over the next year we could put those matters right . 
Mr President , I should like to address the Commission in order to express my wish that the year 2000 should enable us to make progress in the general direction of coherence , particularly in the field of agriculture . 
The fact is , if the European Union intends to fight for alternative rules for international trade , if it is to defend the European farm model , then it must acknowledge that there is still a lot to be done in order to put its political decisions into practice . 
In the banana case , for example , we have not so far been able to reconcile the interests of our producers , those in the ACP countries , with the demands of the WTO . 
Why not ? 
Quite simply because the WTO , according to the Marrakech model , does not permit this , or permits it only with extreme difficulty . 
So why , after so often declaring that the WTO must incorporate social and environmental regulatory mechanisms , and that the European Union intends to guarantee advantages for LDCs , does the Commission still adhere exclusively to the prospect of market liberalisation in this sector ? 
Since Seattle has challenged the inadequacies of existing WTO agreements , I would argue strenuously in favour of the Union handling this issue in accordance with the rules which we intend to see predominate in international trade . 
I would make the same call for coherence in another area , the management of the pigmeat crisis . 
You will be aware that , as a result of this crisis , which has now lasted for more than two years , many independent producers find that they have been relegated to being mere casual workers for firms or other large - scale producers . 
This is a situation which runs totally counter to our European farm model which is based on a multiplicity of diversified and multifunctional family farms . 
Here too , Mr Prodi , I would like to sound the alarm , and I would call upon the Commission to put forward new measures which are properly suited to managing this type of crisis , in addition , obviously , to what you are already proposing , i . e . a solidarity fund . 
My final point concerns the preparation of the budget for 2001 . 
Admittedly , the budget lines for agriculture may be examined in order to reflect the need to show solidarity with the Balkans . 
This is true . We should , however , pay attention to meeting the commitments made in Berlin regarding the CAP and , more especially , to retaining adequate safety margins in order , in particular , to confront the crises which are damaging the fabric of agricultural and rural life . 
Can I take this opportunity to welcome the programme in the context of the five - year strategic plan . 
I particularly wanted to congratulate President Prodi on emphasising the issue of governance in the overall planning process . 
The Economist last week was rather scathing about the importance that was attached to this issue , but we have a huge challenge ahead in attacking the institutional architecture that we need to create for the 21st century - an architecture that has to be commensurate with our responsibilities and our position in the world . 
The outbursts in Seattle and Davos for instance were not just about the issues - they were very much about a populace and a citizenry trying to engage with a new set of institutions and being not quite sure of how to do so . 
Therefore , opening up the invisible cities of decision - making in Europe to the citizenry is absolutely vital . 
Can I welcome the annual programme in particular because there was one omission from the five - year plan . That was the whole area of education , youth and culture which did not make an appearance at all . 
The volume of programmes dedicated to this in the annual programme lends a suitable importance to those areas because they can provide us with the solid basis that we will need in order to be able to face the challenges we are now presented with . 
In moulding a greater Europe we have a significant challenge , but mobility in Europe - student mobility for instance - is still very low . 
Only 2 % outside the old Erasmus programme of students are actually mobile in Europe , which is not something upon which we can build a new economy at all . 
We are entering the new technological age , and again can I congratulate the Commission and also the Portuguese Presidency on the work that it has done to usher in the technological and informational age . 
Again , we need a programme of education that matches the best practice across the whole of Europe . 
We cannot develop a whole series of initiatives based on , for instance , small businesses or health on - line or whatever without educating people to be literate in those technologies . 
This means perhaps looking again at all our educational programmes to see that they match the programmes we are particularly enthusiastic about . 
Can I just , in finishing , say that we will have started four new programmes by the end of this year - Media , Culture 2000 , Youth and Socrates . 
I hope that we will evaluate the work that was done in the previous programmes to ensure that these are not just another new layer but are actually a new beginning for the programmes that can present us with an educated European citizenry . 
Mr President , I must object in the strongest possible terms to the proposal , within this legislative programme , to reduce the agricultural budget by EUR 300 million for the purpose of rebuilding Kosovo . 
While I have every sympathy with the need to rebuild Kosovo , and while I understand fully that the CAP accounts for almost half of the entire expenditure of the EU , I nevertheless object to the agricultural budget being regarded as a well from which water can be drawn each time another department develops a thirst . 
I know a guarantee has been given that the removal of this sum from the budget will not affect any of the financial obligations entered into by the Commission within the framework of the CAP , but I just do not believe it . 
I do not accept that this will simply be a one - off event . 
When farmers in my own constituency of Scotland are suffering their worst recession in more than 100 years , how can I explain to them that this EUR 300 million would be better off spent on Kosovo ? 
When farmers are going bankrupt every day in the UK , when the level of suicides amongst farmers and farm - workers has reached unprecedented levels , when the economy of rural Britain is in spiral decline , how can I explain to them that EUR 300 million would be better off spent in Kosovo ? In such circumstances , it would be mad to slash the budget to this extent . 
We should be spending more to alleviate this crisis rather than contemplating spending less . 
I urge honourable Members , when we come to vote on this issue , to vote against this proposal . 
Mr President , I should like to return to the subject of the annual legislative programme , after that digression on the European budget . 
I should like just to address one particular subject , which is the issue of what has happened to the initiatives that Parliament took under Article 192 of the EC Treaty . 
As Mr Prodi knows , this new article added to the Treaty by the Maastricht Treaty gave Parliament the right to request the Commission to submit legislative proposals . 
The last Parliament exercised this new responsibility on six occasions , but only once did it lead to a legislative proposal being brought forward by the Commission in response to our request , namely the proposals originating in the report of my colleague , Mr Rothley , on insurance for people using their vehicles in other Member States . 
That is a very good example , but what happened to the other five ? 
It seems that the Commission has not responded . 
There is no obligation on the Commission to respond , but we would expect the Commission , in a spirit of cooperation with Parliament , to look at these proposals carefully and to respond in most cases . 
One out of six is simply not good enough . 
We now have an Intergovernmental Conference looking at the Treaties again . 
Following the addition of this article to the Treaty at Maastricht we did not press the Amsterdam IGC to give Parliament a full right of initiative which would enable us to submit a proposal to the Council without going through the Commission . 
We were happy with the compromise that Article 192 represented , but if this compromise is felt not to be working , and if it is not seen to be satisfactory from Parliament ' s point of view , there will inevitably be pressure for the Treaty to be amended to give Parliament a full right of initiative , something the Commission does not want because it sets great store by its monopoly of the right of initiative . 
I say to the Commission , if you do not want that article to be amended further then you must take your responsibilities under the existing article more seriously . 
I would urge the Commission in future , when Parliament makes a legislative proposal in this way , to take it up , at least in the majority of cases if not in all of them . 
Mr President , the Commission has submitted a promising work programme for the year 2000 . 
We cannot do other than give this programme our full backing . 
However , there are also some unfortunate gaps in it . 
There is one gap in particular I would like to discuss ; it is one Mr Jarzembowski touched on just before . 
I do not see the work programme make any mention whatsoever of tourism . 
We are talking about one of the most important branches of industry here , both within the EU and beyond its borders . 
We have long been promised measures for this sector . 
It requires improvement as a matter of urgency , but nothing is happening . 
But the Commission has other important tasks to perform besides those of a legislative nature . 
As Mr Poettering has already mentioned today , it also has a pivotal role as guardian of the treaties . 
With that in mind , the Commission - I say this in view of the occasion - has taken upon itself the task of monitoring the activities of one Member State in particular very closely . 
As a citizen of the country in question , I do not object to this modus operandi . 
Nor will my homeland have a problem with subjecting itself to European scrutiny in matters of human rights , the rights of foreign nationals , and anti - racist policy . 
On the contrary , we have shown in the past that our country has one of the best records on all these points , and we intend to keep it that way . 
If the Commission is to be the guardian of the treaties then please , Mr Prodi , be thorough in your work . 
The behaviour of " the Fourteen "  , or at least of some members of this coterie , can infringe Community law too , and in recent days and weeks , Community law has been infringed on a number of points , for example over the Cultural Capital 2000 issue , school exchange programmes in the Union , and other matters . 
I have " and so on and so forth " written down here , but I hope that things do not continue in this vein . 
Hence I urge the Commission to uphold its role as guardian of the treaties in these matters too , and to remain vigilant . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , thank you for this clear , practical , substantial debate . 
The only thing I would ask is that you view my speech as just part of an overall debate which is taking shape day by day . 
The " short speeches " technique adopted by Parliament means that we have to view all our speeches as part of the same debate as the speeches made yesterday and last month , and I would stress that , whereas last month we laid down the general guidelines , this time our debate has been detailed , for an annual legislative programme must be detailed . 
This debate has clearly revealed the vital importance of our cooperation . Literally all the subjects we have touched on this morning - the need for a major operation to coordinate the budget , the need for a joint action and the need to adopt a position on the Intergovernmental Conference and on relations with the Council - all require Parliament and the Commission to work together . 
This is why our approach to the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference is so important , for the very reason that that is where the rules which will govern our all our future activities will be defined , for we cannot hold another Intergovernmental Conference immediately after this one . 
There has to be a break . 
Today , concern was expressed over the length of the list of subjects to be put to the vote . 
Well , in my opinion , today was the right time to deal with the list and the right time for in - depth analysis . 
Of course , certain areas are missing from this list . 
Many of you have rightly expressed the opinion that tourism is a subject which is missing , which , as has been said , is a larger employer than agriculture . 
Of course , we must turn our attention to this matter , although , as you are aware , the Commission ' s powers in this area are rather limited . 
In any case , the list contains many subjects , the details of which will have to be discussed in committees . 
Among those referred to - and I agree with the objection raised by one of the Members present - were the health and safety of workers , social policy , the consolidation of foreign policy , the elimination of the immense delays caused by Commission red tape and the various practical projects such as GALILEO , regional policy and education . 
There is therefore a series of issues on which we must work together this year . 
However , we also have a major opportunity , which was welcomed by a great many of you today , in that our economy looks set to be sound for at least two or three years . 
We must make the most of this opportunity , since , as you have pointed out , we have a major problem with our budget . 
Today ' s speeches reveal a precise , but ruthless analysis . 
On the subject of agriculture , we cannot relinquish existing resources , which are considered to be vital for the basic subsistence of certain agricultural areas , but , on the other hand , we have foreign policy commitments , such as Kosovo and others , and there are therefore imbalances in our budget . 
We can , in part , correct these imbalances with an economy which , we hope , will expand at a rate of over 3 % per annum - as Mr Elles pointed out - thereby increasing our resources , but we are all well aware that even these resources will not be sufficient to achieve a proper balance between available resources and the programmes and objectives which have been mentioned today . 
In addition , it is vital for Parliament and the Commission to work well together to make these decisions . 
This is the moment of truth , the moment when , together , we must take stock of our future , that is the limits for the budget , establishing the fundamental decisions to be taken and the major actions to be undertaken to shape our future . 
On the one hand , this should be our focus in the coming months , but , on the other , as you have pointed out , there is the issue of competences , governability and the European Constitution , namely the powers of the countries , regions and Länder . 
I am fully aware of this . 
Last week , I met with the official representatives of the German Länder to discuss this issue , and we did not confine ourselves to decentralisation at all : the discussion went much deeper than that . 
We talked about the levels of governability which need to be adopted in Europe , not decentralisation . . 
It is for this reason that I have continued to push for a White Paper on governability . 
We are in the process of creating something completely new . 
We may receive criticism , be limited in our actions and encounter technical setbacks , but we are breaking down the intellectual barriers of politics with this experiment . 
And in order to do this we must work together . 
The White Paper on governability , on the one hand , and the difficulties of balancing the budget , on the other , are the two pillars upon which we must base a joint political action for the short term . 
I can assure you of only one thing : the method adopted by the Commission is a method which genuinely does start from the drawing board ( whiteboard , not blackboard ) , upon which we must set down our ideas regarding what would be best for the future of the institutions for which we are responsible . 
We must , of course , be thorough in this , as we are not supposed to be just drawing up general guidelines , and this is related to the third point which you addressed to me on the report on our actions . 
Each year , we present a report on the actions we have undertaken . 
In February , we presented an annual report on the actions carried out in 1999 , which we would like to expand . 
It already covers all the actions carried out , but we would like to provide more information on our current work . 
These are the plans for a great European Union , plans with a specific objective . 
If we do not implement these plans there will be no place for us in the new world . 
A criticism was made of globalisation , which to me is absurd , for globalisation is already underway . The problem is rather how to accomplish it . 
Do we want to play a leading role in this globalisation ? 
Do we want behave responsibly in respect of developing countries and the Third World in this matter ? 
I feel that this is an extremely important strategy . 
We can no longer allow ourselves to disregard Seattle . On the contrary , we must take up the Seattle debate again , and do so immediately , in an endeavour , of course , or rather , with the firm objective of correcting the errors which caused Seattle to fail . 
There is an obvious need for a collective conscience which will take care of the whole world and not just our own particular interests . 
Woe betide us if we try to halt globalisation , for it is the one remaining hope for Italy , for China , for the world which is trying to develop in this global economy . 
We cannot stifle these countries at such a decisive moment as this . 
This , therefore is our destiny , and our task is to create a Europe which is increasingly able to play a proper role . 
And enlargement is a part of all this : it is not just a means of preserving peace , it is a means of defining our role . 
To return to the subject of enlargement , the Commission has taken a firm position , which is audacious but also resolute and responsible , for the objections raised are of two kinds : on the one hand , there is the desire to bring about enlargement immediately , which is a desire we share , but , on the other , there is the urgent need to specify clearly the implications of enlargement and the means by which it is to be brought about . 
I am aware that my statement that we must allay the fears of public opinion in the applicant countries and the Member States as part of the enlargement process did not go down well in some of the applicant countries , being received with some concern , but my intention is to provide them , as well as ourselves , with a guarantee , for if merely a suspicion were to be raised that , in practice , enlargement was only superficial , pubic opinion would turn against this great , historic move , this seminal event which will define our activity and which gives a moral dimension to the political sphere we are trying to build . 
To sum up , this overall balance , this sense of mission , this feeling of compatibility which guides the actions of every Parliament and every government , must preside over enlargement , the budget , and governability . 
Mr President , I put an extremely topical and extremely precise question to the President of the Commission about his view of the relationship between freedom of expression and responsibility for cooperating loyally with the institutions . 
Unfortunately , I did not receive any answer to this question . 
It is a question which is being debated everywhere in Europe at the moment , and we should be extremely interested to hear his view . 
No , not this time either ! 
Thank you very much , Mrs Thors . 
The President of the Commission has given his answer and we must now continue the debate . 
I have received five motions for resolutions , pursuant to Rule 37 ( 2 ) of the Rules of Procedure . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon . 
Cocoa and chocolate products
The next item is the recommendation for second reading ( A5 - 0047 / 2000 ) , on behalf of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy , on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council Directive relating to cocoa and chocolate products intended for human consumption ( 9947 / 1 / 1999 - C5 - 0252 / 1999 - 1996 / 0112 ( COD ) )  ( Rapporteur : Mr Lannoye ) . 
