Mr President , Commissioner , my contribution to today ' s debate concerns the steel aid code , that is the state aid in Europe granted in accordance with this code and which was assessed by the Commission . 
There were a total of 27 cases in 1998 and the Commission submitted its own report on these . 
The ECSC Treaty is due to expire shortly . 
Hence , what we must focus on today is the question as to how state aid is to be managed in future . 
The European Commission ' s decisions , which feature in the report , are welcomed by the European Parliament , as is the decision to ask for the money back in specific cases , thus applying Article 88 of the ECSC Treaty . 
The competitiveness of the European steel industry also forms the subject of the Commission ' s most recent communication , which we have not yet debated in Parliament . 
As in other sectors , the general ban on state aid according to Article 87 ( 1 ) of the EC Treaty also applies to the iron and steel industry . 
According to this article , state aid is irreconcilable with the common market , in principle . 
Exemptions are only permitted in precisely defined cases . 
Under Article 88 , the Commission is obliged to supervise state aid . 
In 1998 , the largest case concerned the supply of company capital totalling EUR 540 million to the PREUSSAG in Germany . 
Furthermore , the Member States must give the Commission advance warning with regard to their intentions concerning state aid . 
The rules pertaining to the steel industry were drawn up on 18 December 1996 . 
These stipulate that state aid can only be awarded to the steel industry in particular , precisely - defined cases i . e . those involving aid for research and development , aid for environmental protection , social security to ease the closure of steelworks and aid to help non - competitive enterprises cease trading altogether . 
In addition , there is a special provision of up to EUR 50 million for Greece . 
However , there were obviously problems with the practical administration of the steel aid code over the past few years that were not brought fully to bear in the report . 
As far as Parliament is concerned , it is important for us to waste no time in getting down to a debate on the regulations that are to succeed this state aid code once it has expired . 
There must be no watering - down of the existing principles underlying the steel aid code . 
No one wants an unimpeded subsidy competition in Europe . 
This would be to the considerable disadvantage of the internal market , regardless of the fact that the steel industry has undergone consolidation in the past few years . 
Consequently , Parliament believes it is necessary for the steel aid code to be amended in the light of the industry ' s claims about unequal treatment , and for the Commission to provide the Council with follow - up regulations . 
We all know that so far the Council has dragged its feet with regard to follow - up regulations of this kind . 
The reason for this is that people are under the impression that once the steel aid code expires , they will be able to do their own thing again without the inconvenience of the European Commission ' s supervision . 
We therefore demand that once the Treaty expires , steel aid must be regulated by a Council regulation according to Article 94 , for that is the only way to create the necessary legal validity and clarity . 
This is the only way to enforce the strict ban on all aid not covered by the code . 
A Council regulation that is directly applicable law must also be observed by the regional governments . 
What we need to avoid doing in the future is compromising competition conditions and disturbing the balance in the markets . 
We also need to criticise the Commission ' s practice of approving multiple aid packages for steel enterprises which in their view , do not fall within the categories of the code , even given the fact that the European Court of Justice approved this unequal treatment where certain individual decisions were concerned . 
The Commission will be called upon , in a report that has yet to be compiled for the year 1999 , to give a detailed explanation of its active role in the elaboration of restructuring plans and approved exemptions , thus enabling a proper assessment of the overall situation to be made . 
Once the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has adopted the draft report unanimously with two abstentions , I would ask that we make full use of this opportunity , which we have ourselves created , in plenary sitting . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the internal market is not complete . 
Subsidies , monopolies and barriers to competition are still impeding markets and development alike . 
National governments provide subsidies and promise that this is the last time , but then it happens again . 
Subsidies distort allocations , both within and between countries . 
A successive phasing out of State aid is required , and more and more markets must be opened up to competition . This applies to those which have been turned into monopolies , both private and public . 
Public monopolies are , more often than not , phased out reluctantly . 
Increased competition and newly established organisations should be able to provide significant benefits in terms of welfare , including within the spheres of education , health care and social services . 
Public monopolies must be replaced by competitive structures . 
Europe must be modernised , made more entrepreneurial in spirit and adapted in such a way that it becomes a more competitive environment for consumers and companies . 
Effective competition pushes prices down and raises standards of living . 
It is precisely upon price levels that consumer policy has failed to focus sufficiently . In fact , competition policy and consumer policy belong together . 
The internal market is the basis for our work . 
Its legislation is to apply equally to all , to large and small countries alike . 
A systematic survey of the various national regulations is needed if barriers to competition are to be dismantled . The EU ' s own regulations too may therefore need to be analysed . 
The new model now being tested by the Commission ought not to lead to a process of nationalisation pure and simple which would undermine the established competition policy . 
In order to be effective , it must be well anchored in the Member States ' national authorities . 
In six months ' time , it may be appropriate to carry out an analysis of the outcome and also to look more closely at the new situation ' s effects upon the Commission ' s role . 
The question of how best to make further progress has so far been solved through the idea of holding an inter - institutional congress which will open up an unbiased debate adopting a broad perspective and involving representatives of different interests . 
This will provide the opportunity to establish new principles or to return to the more radical changes which have been discussed . There will also be the opportunity to find new common solutions and to analyse amendments from the committee debate . 
The law must be correctly applied in matters of competition . 
Wrongly applied competition policy may cause losses in the legal sphere and interfere with the right of ownership , which is an important and basic principle we should stand up for . 
We have a quite exciting debate in front of us . 
A conference where the issues are properly debated will make it possible to straighten out misunderstandings , at the same time as perhaps improving upon certain points . 
Parliament and the Commission can together increase their efforts to achieve an effective competition policy and so create new opportunities and new resources for our citizens . 
In fact , in my own constituency of Stockholm , we have many good local examples of increased supply and improved quality which have arisen precisely because of exposure to competition in areas which were previously total monopolies . 
We would encourage a continuation of the open debate which has been strengthened in the course of consideration of the reports by Mr von Wogau and Mr Rapkay . 
We hope that the legal points of view will also be accorded the importance which is only reasonable in a state based on the rule of law . 
Mr President , as a new Member I am pleased to be able to make my maiden speech here today , even though there has been a delay . 
I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs Mr von Wogau , Mr Langen , Mr Rapkay and Mr Jonckheer , as well as the Commission , for their excellent cooperation . 
Competition is certainly fundamental to the social market economy and European competition policy is a success story ; take the energy and telecommunications sectors , where there has been a demonstrable lowering of prices and improvement in quality of service . 
All this is to the good of the consumer . 
But we have now arrived at a point where we need to develop competition policy further . 
The Commission has put forward a new White Paper on this containing two key points : dropping the obligation to notify and retrodisplacement of law enforcement . 
Dropping the obligation to notify will mean less red tape and administration costs , at any rate . 
At the same time , this change of system will also lead to more onus being placed on the individual in the business world , of course . 
It will no longer simply be a case of submitting papers and having them approved ; for one thing , each person will have to take responsibility themselves , and that is probably why there is unease about this in other quarters . 
However I believe that we should use this opportunity for Europe to set down a marker for less red tape . 
The second point relates to the retrodisplacement of law enforcement . 
If we are to create a culture of law in Europe , then there is no doubt that the law must be applied not only by the Commission , by central bodies , but also by national authorities , by national courts . 
We are not discussing the fact that although every EU law is only ever decided on centrally , it is precisely the adaptation phase where we will experience a lack of legal certainty . 
It will certainly be necessary to develop an instrument for this in the anticipated legislative procedure that will enable enterprises to enjoy legal certainty and to have recourse to the Commission in this matter . 
The way to a European monopolies commission must be kept clear , something that will certainly form a subject for future discussion . 
But we need there to be more transparency in the competition policy . 
Parliament must have more involvement and I also believe that if we were to introduce a register in which we could ascertain what state aid is being granted , then this would encourage the Member States to be more disciplined . 
However , when it comes to what the future holds for competition , there are two issues dear to my heart . 
One is subsidiarity . 
We all hold the view that competition is vital to the economy and requires there to be efficiency , and I believe we should also permit competition in the regions . 
Competition between the regions will certainly strengthen rather than weaken the European Union . 
I would cite , by way of example , the issue of job creation schemes , savings banks and regional banks , and Gütesiegel . 
Here , a region has , by its own efforts , created a means of marketing its own products . 
This own initiative must not be destroyed by European intervention . 
I believe there is also a need to raise the de minimis regulation . 
We should do everything within our power to force the regions into a situation where they have to compete with each other . 
My second point relates to discussion about competition and the social market economy , although I am not going to talk about market failure just now . 
I have already referred to the regional and savings bank sector , but I would just like to focus on a matter one hears again and again in certain quarters . 
These days , someone who lives in an old people ' s home is accommodated within the social field . 
However , I could also regard them as a customer , and I believe we should enter into rather clear and timely discussion on the ways in which the social field , that is evolved structures , stifle competition . 
Apart from that , I could refer to any customers , any sector , as customers , and thereby have a highly destructive effect on social fields . 
To conclude , I would just like to say something on the principle of subsidiarity . I believe it to be of vital importance that where Member States allow regions and local authorities to raise taxes , they should continue to be able to do so and not be subject to across - the - board regulation by Europe . 
Thank you very much , Mr Radwan . 
I would like to congratulate you on what is referred to in German parliamentary - speak , inappropriately in your case , as a maiden speech . 
Mr President , Commissioner , I am speaking on behalf of my fellow Member , Robert Goebbels , who is unable to attend due to a political commitment . 
Within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs , the Jonckheer report has given rise to bitter controversy on the subject of the operation of the market . 
A slim right - wing majority succeeded in removing any reference to market failures . 
Even if the majority in this House were to adhere to this ultraliberal idea of a supposedly perfect market , it would not make any difference to the real world . 
Economic relationships in the real world adequately demonstrate that eliminating all public intervention in the market does not in any way bring about perfect competition and the optimum distribution of resources . 
While , since the dawn of time , the market has been the key forum for human interchange , it has never been perfect . 
The market favours the short term and immediate profits . 
On the market , the balance of power between supply and demand are generally to the detriment of the weakest parties , consumers and workers . 
In order to function , the market needs rules . 
The necessary and valuable spirit of initiative must be offset by a sense of responsibility towards society . 
We European Socialists are in favour of a market economy with a social purpose . 
The market is not an end in itself ; it must help to improve the human condition . 
The European Union or individual States must not take over from economic operators , but public authorities must define the rules and objectives which enable the economy to develop in a sustainable fashion . 
Finally , aid can enable restructuring , offer training , save jobs and thus know - how . 
The main objective of the Union ' s competition policy cannot be to reduce the overall level of aid . 
This aid must be aligned with the objectives of the Union , particularly economic and social cohesion , sustainable development and research . 
The Commission must track down the illegal aid and the aid which actually hinders the internal market . 
It would be a serious mistake to eliminate all public aid . 
The Internet is not a product of the market , but the result of research financed by the American army . 
The World Wide Web , which has enabled the meteoric development of the information society , was developed by CERN in Geneva , once again with public aid . 
The German Government ' s intervention to save the Holzmann group was criticised as an unjustifiable constraint upon the market economy . 
President Duisenberg even attempted to attribute the weakness , the entirely relative weakness of the euro in relation to the dollar to this state interventionism . 
I did not hear Mr Duisenberg criticising the intervention of the American monetary authorities to save the hedge fund , LTCM . 
Wishing to save 60 000 jobs is , apparently , a sin against the market , but saving capital does not seem to present any problem for the advocates of the free market . 
Public monies are used in order to repair the damage caused by international speculation , as was the case in Mexico , Asia and Brazil . 
Human labour , on the other hand , is considered to be a simple factor in the equation . 
We Socialists reject the liberals ' naïve optimism on this point . 
We want a true culture of competition in Europe . 
The state hand must still be clearly seen to regulate the market and the Commission must act as judge . 
Mr President , Commissioner , I want to begin by thanking Mr Rapkay for a good report and constructive cooperation . 
I want to thank you , Commissioner Monti , for your outstanding cooperation and I want to tell you that , as we enter the new millennium , you have an especially important role . It is your job to tidy up the mess left by national governments . 
These may well have grand visions when it comes to competition policy , but their capacity to wreak havoc seems boundless . 
Let me mention the latest examples we have seen : Holzmann , a company which receives considerable aid from the German Government ; sawmills in former East Germany ; and , especially , aid to shipyards . 
These are three areas in which many Danish companies are experiencing major problems and are being squeezed out of their markets . 
I want to say to Mr Poos that I very much agree with Mr Duisenberg that these examples show that some EU Member States are not in a position to restructure their economies and , to that extent , are helping to undermine the value of the euro . 
The Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party has tabled 80 amendments in the committee , all concerning state aid . 
These are amendments which we believe will lead to transparency and openness , which is very important with a view to making the internal market work . 
I should like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues on the committee for supporting the amendments tabled by the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party . 
As I say , our amendments concern transparency , and I should like to emphasise the amendment which urges the Commission to propose uniform criteria and conditions for the type of state aids we consider to be lawful , specifically in order to ensure that companies can predict what their situation will be . 
Another issue is that of what we are to do when state aid is declared unlawful . 
How do we ensure that unlawful state aid is paid back ? 
At present , there are no common rules in this area , and we vigorously urge the Commission to make a point of harmonising the rules on repayment . 
This is the way forward if we are to ensure uniform conditions of competition . 
Finally , we propose keeping both a register , as mentioned by a number of my fellow MEPs , and also a scoreboard showing where the Member States at present stand with regard to state aid . 
You have shown us the way , Mr Monti , with the single market scoreboard . 
It was this which inspired us to propose the same thing with regard to state aid . 
I very much hope that you , Commissioner Monti , will support these amendments , and I look forward to your comments and to finding out where you stand on this matter . 
To conclude , I want to welcome the Commission ' s XVIIIth Report on Competition Policy , on which , once again , a good deal of work has been done . 
But , as I have already mentioned , our overriding objectives ought still to be those of transparency and openness . 
There is still a need to tighten up in the areas mentioned , and there is therefore good reason for continuing to work resolutely towards solving the problems concerning the lack of transparency and openness in the area of state aid . 
This is especially necessary in relation to the forthcoming enlargement of the Union , and I should like to thank Mr Jonckheer who , in his report , has considered very thoroughly the problems associated with enlargement and with ensuring that the applicant countries are able to meet our criteria , as well as with ensuring common conditions of competition . 
As Liberals and Greens , we clearly have different opinions on how the world should look , but we are well on the way to agreement as to our objectives , and we shall try to find reasonable solutions to our problems . 
Mr President , Commissioner , there are just two questions which must be answered . 
Are state aid to business or inter - company agreements legitimate in a market economy , and who must supervise these exceptions to the absolute rules of the market economy ? 
Regarding the first point , we say quite clearly that , in order to take into consideration the requirements of sustainable development which the European Union has endorsed , it is essential that , in some instances , there is state aid to businesses , be it in the form of tax exemptions , special taxation or even direct aid . 
It is also legitimate for there to be inter - company agreements and voluntary restraint agreements , since all these agreements make it possible to reduce the detrimental effects of competition on social or ecological requirements . 
So our clear response is that , yes , such aid and such agreements are legitimate , but we say that every single one of these agreements must be expressly justified . 
The von Wogau report proposes referring supervision of the legitimacy of individual cases to national level . 
We feel this is relatively dangerous , but all the same we shall vote in favour of it because we recognise that the Commission cannot do everything . 
We demand that the greatest possible transparency should be in place and that greater powers of investigation be granted to the Commission in order to check the legitimacy of such exceptions after the fact . 
Mr President , once again we are debating the European Union ' s competition policy . 
But let us stop to consider the circumstances in which this debate is taking place and the conclusions to which it should bring us . 
The overriding features of today ' s economy are massive mergers and acquisitions involving huge companies with a market monopoly and the emergence of frighteningly powerful multinational groups . 
Should we not be discussing this issue ? 
We need a competition policy which can and will introduce controls on the activities of these private - sector monopolies . 
Certain sectors of European industry , such as the shipbuilding industry , air transport and the steel industry , which have been hard hit by existing competition policy , have suffered tremendously . 
They have lost their status , and a significant slice of the world market and hundreds of thousands of workers have been made redundant . 
When will we debate that ? 
The scandalous concentration of power in sectors of strategic importance is giving speculative multinational groups economies the size of entire states , and Member States of the Union at that . 
And yet , we keep on weakening the public sector and we are ready and willing to tighten competition policy yet further by qualifying public procurement contracts placed with public - sector corporations as state aid . 
At the same time , unemployment is spiralling as a result of the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs . 
Workers are facing a massive attack on their employment and social rights . 
Consumers see their standard of living being eroded , poverty spreading and the public sector and production base in most countries in the Union being dismantled and dissolved in the name of unadulterated and catastrophic competition , in the name of the absolute market economy and the promotion of the monopolistic interests of big business . 
We consider the competition policy to be responsible for all this and are totally opposed to it . 
Mr President , Commissioner , in the course of this pivotal year , prior to the changeover to the single currency , the Commission has deployed every effort to ensure the birth of the euro in a favourable environment . 
The competition policy has , as far as these resources permitted , contributed to this event . 
For our part , we remain staunchly opposed to the single currency which , far from bringing us the advantages and flexibility of a shared currency , imprisons us in an artificial straitjacket , which has been imposed on the peoples of Europe . 
Having said that , governing means planning . It also means being responsible and , in this new context which has been forced upon us , competition law naturally has an essential role to play . 
In this area , the Commission has given priority to a number of routes of action : acting on the structure of markets by actively combating anti - competitive practices , by refocusing its departments ' supervisory activities only upon matters with a manifest Community interest and by affirming its intention to modernise competition law . 
As regards state aid , it is essential to ensure that regulations are not made more complex , and the introduction of a public register , where all aid would be recorded , does not seem advisable to us since this onerous commitment would quite naturally run counter to the attempts to simplify bureaucratic constraints . 
Finally , on the subject of modernising the implementation of Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty , we do not think that decentralised application would necessarily be going in the right direction . 
The Commission is , in fact , retaining not only the power to take matters out of the jurisdiction of national authorities , but clearly obliging the national jurisdictions to avoid disputing the decisions of the Commission at all . 
National states would thus become the secular arm of the Commission regarding observance of the application of rules which they do not control . 
In conclusion , I would say that while some measures are heading in the right direction , we shall of course remain vigilant in order to prevent the snowballing of Federalism which , if it were realised , would be to the detriment of Europe and the sovereignty of the states . 
Mr President , Commissioner , we have a basically positive view of the Commission ' s White Paper on competition , particularly as regards the abolition of the system of notification and authorisation , but we are also puzzled by several things . 
First of all , there is a risk that the decentralisation of powers , though necessary in many ways , will cause an abnormal increase in competition - related initiatives , and that some people will be tempted to use competition law , not as a means to be resorted to when all else fails , of ensuring the smooth and predictable functioning of the markets , but for the purposes of as an instrument for economic and industrial policy , planning and interference with the natural workings of the markets themselves , or even for protectionist purposes . 
In this respect , we should heed the words of von Eieck , and doubtless also those of the great Italian liberal Bruno Leoni , who warned precisely against the risks of an abnormal increase in anti - competition policies . 
State interference in the economy is , even today , still to blame for the most serious hindrances placed in the way of the market , competition and freedom of choice for European users and consumers . 
There is State aid for businesses - we have already discussed this , there is still a strong public presence in the economy - it is estimated that the Italian Treasury controls 15 % of stock exchange capitalisation ; governments and central banks place obstacles in the way of mergers and acquisitions ; and there has been much talk in recent weeks about Vodafone ' s bid for Mannesmann and the bailout of Holzmann . 
Finally , Commissioner , we cannot forget that large sections of the economy are still firmly in the hands of the state , ranging from state television , which is funded on a mandatory basis by the taxpayer , and the Post Office , to some compulsory insurance schemes , including health and social welfare systems , which are managed by inefficient state monopolies which leave no - one but the wealthy user with any other option . 
Commissioner , I am quite familiar with the constraints imposed by the Treaties , but I believe that , it must be emphasised once again that the European economy is finding it hard to compete with the American economy , especially because of insufficiently open markets and a lack of genuine competition . 
What is being done may well be very important , but it is still not sufficient . 
Mr President , we are holding a special debate : on competition policy and state aid , the government ' s right and left hand , so to speak . 
Whilst the EMU criteria are forcing Member States to curb expenditure , the high level of state aid to industry has so far remained in place . 
This is understandable , because it is highly likely that Member States which start to cut back on state aid will cause companies to leave , with adverse effects on employment . 
But , at the same time , this is not understandable because bad management and non - viable jobs should not be funded by taxpayers ' money . 
In principle , only horizontal regulations are permissible because they do not distort , or hardly distort , competition . 
The rapporteur ' s Amendments Nos 6 and 7 , therefore , deserve our support . 
Amendments Nos 1 and 5 make reference to the phenomenon of market failure because the market instrument in itself does not result in the ideal society . 
Vulnerable people find themselves hardest hit . 
Market forces must be employed in a sophisticated manner to do full justice to the responsibility of citizens and companies . 
If this comes to nothing , then the government has to step in . 
The Commission ' s White Paper on modernising competition policy seems more like a discussion paper . 
The plea in favour of decentralisation in order to lighten the load within the Directorate - General on Competition is a kind gesture , but the way in which the Commission would like to carry this through would lead to the judiciary being stretched . 
This would be at the expense of legal certainty within industry . 
Does the pressure of work within the Commission really decrease when national judges are required to report to the Commission ? 
What is the Council ' s opinion on this and is the Commissioner prepared to completely reconsider these points ? 
Mr President , a White Paper , by definition , is not something you can take or leave . 
It is there to generate reactions and the White Paper has certainly succeeded in doing that . 
It forms a sound basis for discussion and is to be welcomed in this sense . 
I understand where the authors are coming from and I share their views . 
I also assume that you , Commissioner , want to honour the reputation of , and the work put in by , your predecessors and that your offices will pursue the same objective . 
I cannot imagine the Commission taking initiatives in order to de - Europeanise or re - nationalise in a thorough manner , but I have my concerns and questions nevertheless . 
Firstly , these relate to the coherence of the policy ' s application . 
In general , I am a great defender of cultural diversity but not in terms of competitiveness within the internal market . 
The internal market needs a uniform competition policy , not only in terms of concept , but also in terms of application . 
It is true , there are some European regulations and interpretative statements on the way . 
The Commission is also said to have the right of evocation and can give guidelines to the national competition authorities . 
But I still wonder if we do not run the risk of ending up in a kind of Echternach procession where we will have to take one step back before we are able to take two steps forward . 
So , I would like to hear more about how the Commission will guarantee this uniform application in practice and whether you yourself consider the courses outlined from point one hundred onwards in the White Paper to be feasible . 
Secondly , I understand the worry of industry regarding legal certainty . 
Many dossiers are currently being filed with precisely this concern . 
This instrument will fall by the wayside in future . 
In the White Paper , you state that the Commission will still issue particular orders which can be used as guidelines , but what will your criteria be for granting such orders one day but not the next ? 
Thirdly , I would like to know whether the Commission has looked into the effects its new approach will have on industrial strategy . 
I have particular concerns regarding the fate of SMEs which will lose part of their legal and financial protection , as is already the case , one has got to admit , within the new vertical group exemption for the distribution sector . 
Fourthly , I would like to be informed of why the Commission does not choose to apply the invalidity penalty in the case of evident infringements of the competition rules . 
Fifthly , with the pending enlargement , I wonder whether the candidate counties will be able to play our game . 
They are still in training , as it were . 
What guarantees do we have that they will grow into first - class players in the league of the internal market ? 
Sixthly and lastly , I would remind you of a point that I have already raised in my report on vertical restrictions , namely the legal privilege of company lawyers . 
If the Commission implements the White Paper objectives , it seems to me that discrimination within the internal market and between external and internal legal advisers will become more pronounced and hence even less acceptable . 
Is the Commission considering taking any action to allow in - house lawyers in all Member States legal privilege ? 
Commissioner , I am asking these questions as a defender of the internal market and I hope that , in this sense , we are all partners and that the discussion between these partners does not remain sterile but can bear fruit . 
Mr President , I would like , in beginning my speech regarding the White Paper , to congratulate the rapporteur , Mr von Wogau . 
The fact that the Group of the Party of European Socialists is very much in agreement with your report is clearly demonstrated by the fact that only one amendment has been presented during this procedure . 
We are , therefore , in agreement with the report , Commissioner , as well as the broad outlines of the White Paper . 
Since the Treaty entered into force , Community law on competition has been one of the tenets of Community policy . 
After almost forty years of being in force , these rules were beginning to show signs of exhaustion . 
For this reason , modernisation was essential . 
That modernisation came to be particularly necessary for five reasons . 
Firstly , the authorisation system ; secondly , decentralised application ; thirdly , procedural rules ; fourthly , judicial application ; and fifthly and finally , excessive red tape . 
The system of individual approvals needed urgent reform , as was unanimously requested by specialised companies , academics and lawyers . 
I have not attended a single forum of specialists in competition law which has not requested a change to the system . 
A system , such as the current one , which is capable of making so few decisions , be they approvals or prohibitions , is something less than a valid system . 
National competition authorities were able to apply Articles 81 ( 1 ) and 82 for some time . 
However , they could not apply Article 81 ( 3 ) , which , to a certain extent , prevented the coherent application of Article 81 ( 1 ) . 
You will know that there are currently two preliminary issues before the Court of Justice , both brought by German courts , which question the feasibility of applying 81 ( 1 ) without being able to apply 81 ( 3 ) . 
A reform of this point was therefore also necessary . 
The procedure in the field of competition is basically contained in Regulation 1762 . 
The voices in favour of its amendment were unanimous . 
The fact that it did not establish a genuine procedure , that it did not establish time limits , that it did not regulate access for interested parties to the files , or that the right to defence was not properly recognised , were factors which led to the unanimous demand for reform . 
The Court of Justice accepted some time ago that Community competition law could be applied by the legal bodies of the Member States and in 1994 , the Commission published a communication on this subject . 
It was therefore necessary to facilitate this approach . 
One of the most frequent criticisms of Community competition law is its excessive red tape . 
As a consequence of the continental legal tradition , consideration of whether certain agreements are anti - competitive or not depends more on an analysis of their clauses than on their effects on the market . 
It was therefore necessary to introduce an economic analysis . 
The White Paper intends to resolve these problems and we therefore support these proposals . 
It is also true that we note certain deficiencies which have come to light in the report . 
Amongst these , firstly , is the fact that , despite trying to modernise Articles 81 and 82 , Article 81 and not Article 82 carries exclusive weight . At the moment , with inter - company agreements and the privatisation of monopolies preserving dominant positions and even consolidating them , the combating of abusive conduct is becoming particularly important . 
Secondly , Regulation 1762 must be repealed and replaced with a new regulation . 
For these reasons , we are going to vote in favour of the report . 
However , if some of the amendments are accepted , particularly those presented by the PPE - DE Group , we would consider the report to be stripped of its value and to have become an inconsistent document , lacking in rigour and , in that event , we would reconsider our support . 
Mr President , amongst the various issues being dealt with in this joint debate , I would like to comment on the one mentioned by Mr Berenguer , that is to say , the modernisation of competition policy , which is the subject of the Commission ' s White Paper . 
Frankly , I believe that this modernisation has been satisfactory . 
Through his management , Commissioner Monti achieves good results , as did his predecessor and , clearly , he has established a guarantee which , in parallel with the creation and development of the European internal market , has been capable of establishing the corresponding corrective measures so that the market economy within the Union may work adequately , without the distortions which we economists know may arise when the market is enlarged , as has happened in the European Union since 1993 . 
If it functions well , if we are satisfied , if the Commission has basically acted correctly , why the need for the modification ? 
Various arguments have been presented in its favour . 
Mr Berenguer made a very accurate analysis , justifying the need and the relevant reforms for improving the dynamics of competition , but my concern is to ensure that the standards and criteria which will be applied through the corresponding administrations in the Member States , are truly identical in all regions . 
Because , if this is not the case , we will be faced with the paradox that the Commission itself will introduce elements of unfair competition into the functioning of the European internal market . 
In that event we would not have moved forward , but rather backwards , in the application of competition policy in the Union . 
Mr President , I would like firstly to express my appreciation to the Commission for the improvement represented by the XXVIIIth report on competition policy in the Union , when compared to previous reports . 
I would also like to highlight the work carried out by the rapporteur , Mr Rapkay , who has dissected this dense and comprehensive text in such a concise way . 
I would also like to fully support his comments on the need to allow the regions - such as the Basque Country , which I represent - a margin for action , by virtue of the principle of subsidiarity . 
Nevertheless , I cannot forget the numerous criticisms , both from Member States and from market operators , which , given the broad margin for manoeuvre and discretion enjoyed by the Commission in its evaluation of specific cases , maintain that they suffer from legal insecurity in the absence of clear rules allowing interested parties to anticipate the position of the authorities and thereby make feasible requests for aid aimed at the promotion of economic activity and employment , the planning of company mergers etc . 
The only guarantee has been to seek prior favourable approval , through individual cases , which will take more than six or eight months to resolve , an excessively long period , which simply leads to problems of a lack of flexibility , affecting the generation of wealth and employment . 
I therefore believe that something is missing and I suggest that we establish more regulations , lay down clear rules , which will benefit all of us : businesspeople , investors , workers and the citizens in general . 
Mr President , I would like to stress that , in an age of significant technological changes - just look at what is happening in the information technology sector and other sectors such as energy and transport - safeguarding competition will be of fundamental importance for our future . 
From the point of view of economic growth , and therefore of increasing employment and wealth , safeguarding a competition policy in the Member States is becoming a crucial factor , and one that is certainly very important for our future . 
This is why I give this report my full support . 
Recently , I have noticed that the Commission has been working hard to ensure that this principal is respected in a proper and effective manner , precisely in order to safeguard market flexibility , both for products and for services . 
I would emphasise that this is going to be extremely important for our future , for Europe ' s economy , and , above all , for the protection of our wealth and technological development in Europe in general . 
Mr President , for British Conservatives the efficient and uniform application of European competition policy is at the core of achieving an effective single market across the whole of the European Union . 
It therefore follows that any proposal which suggests major reform of the machinery for competition policy enforcement must be closely and carefully examined . 
The truth is that the single market is not yet complete . 
During my six months as a Member of this Parliament , I have become acutely aware of the determination of many Members to drive forward what is described as the European project . 
We daily hear the need to promote a wider and deeper Europe . 
But all this , in effect , is so much rhetoric when we look at the national , regional and local obstacles which continue to block the operation of a true European single market . 
That is the context in which I want to consider the Commission ' s proposals . 
I should like to make it clear that we have the greatest confidence in and respect for Commissioner Monti . 
We look to him as the man to root out cartels . 
But he would recognise that , as for everybody else , we have to consider his particular proposals and subject them to rigorous examination . 
That is something that has been done by our rapporteur on the Committee for Economic and Monetary Affairs , Mr von Wogau . 
I want to congratulate him , sadly in his absence , for the thorough and rigorous way in which he has undertaken the preparation of his report - and also for putting up with my being such a thorn in his side ! 
He mentioned earlier that the report was carried with a significant majority but not with my support . 
So although I may not share his conclusions , I believe he has illustrated in his report many of the issues which the Commission must address . 
The first is the potential for renationalisation of competition policy . 
I know that the Commission is set against this , but the potential exists . 
I remain worried about the capacity of national courts and the capacity of the national competition authorities . I remain worried about the whole operation of the judicial process . 
I asked Commissioner Monti the other day what happens if he proves to be wrong and there is an effective renationalisation . 
Mr von Wogau said we can look to the European Court . 
Well , we in Britain are looking to the European Court at the moment . 
We find that the European Court is not able to provide us with interim measures in a certain dispute that we have with France at the moment , in which we have the support of the Commission . 
Unless anybody thinks that this is merely a nationalistic point , in the Factortame case , in which the British Government was the defendant , it took ten years for the European Court to give a ruling . 
So , judicially , something needs to be done . 
I ask the Commission what can be done to speed up implementation in this particular area . 
In relation to legal certainty , I endorse the point made by Mrs Thyssen . 
It is important that business has legal certainty . 
I mentioned this again to Commissioner Monti recently . 
He said we must not always be carried along by lawyers . 
I must declare an interest as a lawyer but also as a former competition minister in the United Kingdom . 
We all have , as it were , our histories to live with , but it is important that business has legal certainty . 
I would also ask the Commission whether an analysis has been undertaken of the implications of this change for business : a cost - benefit analysis of the sort that is now becoming so much more European policy . 
I know there has been an analysis of the implications for the Commission of the change . 
We have been told how , currently , people ' s time is being wasted and that the changes , therefore , could be beneficial . 
But I really feel that , in the circumstances , we want to know what the implications would be for business . 
Finally , we , as British Conservatives , are looking for a change in direction , towards the development of an independent competition authority . 
I would like to hear what Commissioner Monti has to say about that . 
Mr President , the European Union ' s competition policy has been of central importance since European integration began . 
It is an integral part of the tension , inherent in the very concept of European integration , between solidarity and cooperation between Member States , with a view to creating a better and more efficient environment for the people and the economy , and competition , which should provide incentives to improve the competitiveness and future viability of the European Union as an entity . 
It is therefore with some justification that competition policy is one of the most important policies . 
We can be proud of a European competition culture , for it is this that will make the social market economy a reality . 
We can be proud of monopolies and mergers supervision . 
However , we must be vigilant in the face of global operators , against whom nation - states are no longer able to impose limits . 
That is why we should bear in mind what was said by the French writer Vivienne Forestier , who described the state of the world in terms of the economy ' s reign of terror . 
Society is surrendering itself to the economy . 
That is precisely what we do not want in the European Union . 
We are aware that in this age of strategic alliances and millennium mergers - in 1998 USD 2 400 billion was paid out in connection with take - overs - restrictive practices are being held in check , not just by our own rules but also by bilateral cooperation with the USA or Japan , or others , until we get the international competition law we so badly need . 
European competition policy , as we very often forget , is not just important for fair competition as such , but also for prices , growth and employment , and hence for the public . 
In common with the other Members , I call for Parliament to have codecision rights where competition law is concerned . 
It is essential that this long overdue step be taken . 
It is also important to underline the connection between competition policy and consumer protection . 
I welcome the fact that Commissioner Monti wants to make progress in this area in the dialogue with the European Parliament , as he does in the dialogue with non - governmental organisations , consumer protection associations and the public . 
Greater transparency will also help to achieve public acceptance of decisions relating to competition policy . 
Then it is possible to understand that , for example , lower electricity and telecommunications prices are due to European competition policy , and Brussels should not be pilloried when aid decisions are taken which are , of course , bound to cause problems at a particular moment in time or in a local context . 
It is particularly important for there to be clarity in relation to competition rules in view of EU enlargement . 
Emphasis must also be placed on the fact that a state aid policy - and the Jonckheer report makes this very clear - must continue to afford each state the freedom to define and organise the tasks of the public sector and ownership structures on an independent basis . 
At the same time , it must be made clear that aid can serve a useful purpose , with a view to offsetting the deficiencies of the market and furthering Community objectives . 
A word on the White Paper : the revision of Articles 81 and 82 represents a change of direction in monopolies policy . 
I am opposed to this , unlike the majority of this House and indeed the majority of my own group , because I believe that , in competition policy terms , the directly applicable exception system is in every sense inferior to a system of prohibition unless certain conditions are met , and I believe there is a threat of renationalisation . 
The system currently in force creates transparency , affords enterprises legal certainty and has , without a shadow of a doubt , led to discipline and acted as a deterrent on account of the notification requirement . 
The problem of overwork highlighted by the Commission is not a sufficient reason for making radical changes to the legal system . 
Indeed , it is debatable whether this could be carried through at all without amending the Treaty . 
Mr President , I am very glad that Mrs Randzio - Plath mentioned the very important context of our debate because up until now no other speaker has done so . 
The advent of the euro at the beginning of last year unleashed enormous competitive forces within European business which are being met by a merger wave of quite unprecedented proportions . 
For example , the figures for last year now show that the total value of mergers in the European area was EUR 1 . 4 trillion , which is seven times the level of merger activity at the peak of the last European merger boom in 1990 . 
This poses enormous challenges for competition policy , which I hope it will be able to meet because , for certain , many of those mergers are going to be designed to protect profit margins of the businesses from competition rather than merely to enhance productivity and make those businesses able to operate on a bigger scale . 
Commissioner Monti and his colleagues have a tremendous challenge ahead of them and our worries in the ELDR Group are that there should be no weakening in the thrust of competition policy either in the examination of mergers or the monitoring of restrictive practices . 
Delegation to national authorities is all very well but we would emphasise what Mr von Wogau said in his report on the need for regular monitoring of national authorities to ensure that there is no slippage in the European element , and , particularly would ask the Commissioner to reassure us that there would be random checks on that . 
Mr President , in the limited time I have , I would like to express my support for the work carried out by all the rapporteurs and my agreement with many of the things which have been said here , in particular by Mr Jonckheer , who criticised the excessive gathering of information and the lack of transparency and socio - economic balance in the granting of aid . 
I also agree with the criticism that no emphasis has been put on the implementation of Article 82 , especially when we are witnessing abusive conduct in a context of market concentration . 
As a Member for the Basque Country , I would like to express my total support for the implementation measures for fair competition in the market . 
I say this in case there is any doubt about the criticisms which we have directed at the Commission in general , and Mr Monti , in particular , for its persecution of the incentives to Basque companies and the fact that it considers them to be state aid . 
Our discrepancy stems from the fact that the Commission continues to misunderstand the character of the general system and the co - responsibility of our arrangement which gives our Basque fiscal rules the same nature , foundation and aim as the rules of the Member States of the Union , and that they are applied in a general way to all tax - payers who , by virtue of points which fall under an external system of law , are subject to those rules . 
Mr President , Commissioner , competition is exactly what we need . 
We need competition if there is the least unemployment , for a smooth - running healthcare system , for social justice , for high social standards , and , of course , we also need - these are competition criteria to do with the economy - business management competition so as to achieve highest - quality products , equal market access conditions for all enterprises , and environmentally - friendly products . 
In other words , we must succeed in linking the competition criteria that are necessary to the economy with those relating to managerial economics . 
I often have the impression , unlike the country I come from - former East Germany - where economic competitiveness is prized above all else and competitiveness relating to managerial economics is disregarded , that very often the reverse is the case ; society thinks almost exclusively in terms of managerial economics . 
I say that as an entrepreneur who has a vested interest in this . 
But a system cannot function in this way : it will only work if the two aspects go hand in hand . 
I will give you an example : the European Union was right to support the Grönitz steelworks in Brandenburg , although out of 5 000 jobs only 700 remained . 
But these are competitive jobs , for this steelworks is now the number two tool steel manufacturer in the Federal Republic of Germany . 
Anyone who would jeopardise production at this steelworks on principle , by demanding the return of the aid that was granted at the time , would not just place the steelworks itself in jeopardy but also one of the region ' s employers that small and medium - sized enterprises are , of course , dependent on too . 
It goes without saying that that is not what the European Union ' s competition policy is designed to achieve . 
If we want there to be competition then we must establish this link between the requirements of the national economy and the pre - requisites of managerial economics . 
Indeed that is the only way to build up regional economic circulation in the under - developed regions that will protect people ' s social welfare and boost purchasing power . 
To that end , we must also make it our business to take more account of demand - orientated economic policy as opposed to one focusing heavily on supply . 
Mr President , ever since I was elected to this Parliament in 1994 I have never witnessed a report which had such anti - Irish sentiments and overtones as the Jonckheer report which we are debating today . 
I would like to quote verbatim from the report :  " State aid per capita is highest in Italy , Germany and Ireland . Ireland clearly is in the lead when national and Community regional and social funds are put together . " 
I believe that the rapporteur is simply playing with figures . 
I find it difficult to understand how he can index regional and social funds into this mathematical equation . 
I should like to remind the Member that the European Union has agreed to the new regional aid guidelines for the period 2000 plus . 
This was merely an extension of the policy objectives to complete the internal market within Europe . 
Regional disparities must be overcome if the internal market is to succeed and prosper . 
I welcome the fact that grant aid of 40 % and a top - up of 15 % for SMEs for fixed investment will be permitted for companies setting up in Objective 1 regions in Europe post - 2000 . 
I remind Mr Jonckheer that Irish companies or foreign companies in Ireland still have to cross two sea masses to reach the mainland European marketplace . 
No other Member State is at such a disadvantage . 
Mr President , the monopolies ' ban is the key element of functioning competition order in Europe . 
The Commission deemed the practical administration relating to the monitoring of the monopolies ' ban to be unsatisfactory , something I would wholeheartedly agree with . 
But opinion differs as to the solution . 
The Commission ' s proposal does not formally deviate from the monopolies ban but the upshot of this proposal is a transition from a ban with permit reservation to a permit with ban reservation . 
In other words , we are making the transition from the principle of banning to that of misuse . 
Both I and other MEPs utterly reject such a drastic change of system . 
I do not accept that a practical transposition problem should give rise to changing the law . 
We would be changing the law to make it executable again , which is something I consider to be unacceptable . 
The Commission is giving up its monopoly on exemptions . 
Competition restrictions are to be automatically exempted against the background of this planned system of legal exemption , insofar as the provisions of Article 81 ( 3 ) of the Treaty on European Union allow . 
The requirement to lodge applications in Brussels will be dropped ; in other words , the Commission will be completely in the dark in future . 
This is unacceptable to my mind . 
The Commission ' s programme is to be supplemented by enhanced follow - up supervision of the national authorities and Member States ' courts . 
But if this takes place in the course of renationalisation then what we will have here is a patchwork quilt of competition policy . 
This is unacceptable in my view . 
It would weaken a key element of European policy . 
The change of system in European monopolies law that the European Commission is contemplating is high risk as far as competition policy is concerned . 
There are enough other options in the present system to safeguard open markets and free competition . 
In any case , the Commission ' s proposal refers back to old proposals that were put forward as long ago as the fifties and sixties . 
There was no majority for this at the time . 
Since France laid a huge amount of emphasis on legal exemption at the time , it was damaged by concessions in agricultural policy . 
Forty years on , this proposal has again been placed on the table and I am certain that it will create room for manoeuvre for the monopolies , to the detriment of Europe ' s consumers . 
I consider this to be unacceptable . 
Mr President , in this important debate on competition , I am speaking this morning with particular reference to Mr Langen ' s document on the Steel Aid Code . 
As the Court of Justice recognised in 1996 , the steel industry is particularly sensitive to competition - related disturbances . 
Indeed , several years ago , this was the conclusion of a report that I compiled on the strengths and weaknesses of the European steel sector . 
This is why it was justifiable to set up a system of aid to this sector with the aim of ensuring the survival of successful businesses , even if this was in contradiction of Article 4 of the ECSC Treaty . 
This indeed , is the aim of the sixth Steel Aid Code , but at the same time it is important to avoid any infringement of the conditions of competition and any serious disturbance of the markets , hence the importance of regulating such aid . 
It is therefore necessary to continue to limit state aid for research , development , environmental protection and cases of company closure . 
In the same category of ideas , it is essential that Member States fulfil their obligation to be accountable to the Commission for the aid granted to their steel companies . 
The Commission suggests shorter deadlines . I agree with this request . 
Like the rapporteur , while I am pleased with the Commission report , nonetheless I deplore the fact that it does not cover all aspects of the aid . 
Although the Steel Aid Code is expressed in a very clear way , the Commission has authorised granting steel companies aid which is not covered by the categories stipulated by the Code . 
In the interests of equality , either the Code must be applied or it must be modified . 
Finally , and in conclusion , Mr President , with the expiry of the ECSC Treaty , the regulations will have to be reviewed since I think that the aid system will have to continue beyond 2002 , and in that case I am in favour of a Council regulation which will ensure security in this area . 
We therefore await , and I await , the European Commission ' s proposals on this matter . 
Mr President , I am also going to refer to the report by Mr Langen , which concerns aid to the steel industry . 
I agree with the rapporteur on two issues . 
Firstly , I agree on the need to guarantee equal conditions for aid to all Member States and , secondly , on the need for transparency with regard to this aid . 
We agree with the rapporteur regarding his criticism of the fact that , despite the rules laid down in the sixth Steel Aid Code , the Commission has frequently authorised aid to companies which do not correspond to the categories in that Code . 
However , the thing that worries us most , Mr President , is the decrease in prices , by 30 % , owing to imports . 
The reason for this decrease is unfair competition from South Korea and Taiwan , in the case of steel , as a result of their different working conditions and conditions governing aid . 
Orders in the steel industry and the ship - building industry - we also spoke about this a while ago - have decreased drastically , resulting in a loss of jobs . 
I live in a region where the ship - building industry now has very serious problems : Asturias . 
With global markets , we need global employment laws and global subsidies . 
I know this is difficult to achieve now , but if we do not achieve fair employment laws for all workers , here and elsewhere , and we do not secure equitable subsidies for all countries , here and elsewhere , it will be difficult to preserve jobs in Europe and outside it . 
Mr President , Commissioner , Director - General , I would particularly like to emphasise the following in relation to the von Wogau report : I welcome the Commission ' s open - minded endeavours to initiate debate on the hitherto strict procedural rules , and to propose practical reform measures . 
I congratulate the rapporteur Karl von Wogau , who takes up the theme but also makes quite plain his demand for clarification , indicates the accompanying measures that need to be taken , and pulls no punches when it comes to the problems currently under discussion . 
The White Paper and the report are contributions made at the beginning of a necessary process of reflection , discussion , and reform which has yet to be concluded because there are still a few questions posed by ourselves , the judiciary , the Member States , and above all the SMEs concerned , that need to be clarified . 
Competition policy must continue to be accorded central importance and will not be renationalised because this would jeopardise the internal market and Europe as a business location in a global economy . 
However , it must be " europeanised " taking into account the principle of subsidiarity . 
I also welcome , therefore , the fact that responsibility is to fall to the individual , without the Commission giving up any of its responsibility . 
In practice , only 9 cases were rejected , 94 % of the cases that the Commission had to process were not dealt with formally but by means of unpublished , non - legally binding administrative communications or on account of the expiry of deadlines , which clearly shows that the work of the Commission is subject to time - related , staffing and financial limitations in this age of globalisation and EU enlargement
To conclude , I would like to tell you what I am expecting from this reform : fair competition and equal competition conditions , legal certainty for all enterprises , consistent application of competition policy , procedural simplification according to the principle of the one - stop - shop , coordination of the national - and to me , independent - competition authorities , close cooperation between the national authorities and courts and the Commission , along with a clear distribution of competences between national authorities and courts in the application of European competition and monopolies law , and I expect the Commission to concentrate on what is most crucial in the fulfilment of its tasks as the supreme guardian of the European competition policies . 
I am in suspense as to how the discussions , which were broadly based , will be incorporated in the first legislative proposal . 
The Commission report confirms that , with the exception of Germany , state aid to businesses is increasing . 
The Commission finds this worrying only from the point of view of the conditions of competition . 
As far as we are concerned , we look at things from the point of view of the interests of the working classes . 
Society gains nothing from these massive transfers of public funds to private business . 
Take , for example , the car manufacturing sector , where subsidies and state aid of various sorts have increased by 24 % during the reference period . 
With what aim ? 
Not to save jobs . 
All these firms have gone ahead with job cuts and even redundancies . 
Not to improve working conditions , for in increasing production with fewer workers , working conditions are made worse . 
Did these firms need state aid to survive ? 
No , car manufacturers have been making colossal profits for years . 
State aid is not only counterproductive because , as the Jonckheer report acknowledges , it gives rise to subsidy hunting with firms relocating from one country to another , but it is unacceptable because it allocates public monies to the enrichment of a handful of private shareholders . 
It is because the richest people are being favoured everywhere with state money that throughout Europe social protection is being reduced , public services are being abandoned , hospitals are being closed . 
In voting against the Jonckheer report , I wish to assert the need for another policy , to wit , ceasing all aid to private firms and utilising the money thereby saved to develop public services and recruit staff . 
Mr President , today ' s debate is extremely important because the principle of competition has probably been the cornerstone of the internal market . 
In accordance with the principle of competition , the legislation has implemented Articles 85 to 94 , competition policy in the strict sense , and the revision of all state aid and tax provisions which may affect competition . 
Firstly , fiscal provisions of an indirect nature and recently , thanks to Commissioner Monti , there have been direct provisions , the code of good conduct in particular . 
This has worked fairly well , but , as in the famous film Casablanca ' time goes by ' and we must adapt the legislation we have been applying until now to the new circumstances . 
In this respect I have observed a significant consensus in all the interventions . 
Firstly , it is necessary , in drawing up the legislation , to produce clear and complete rules . 
It is probably horrendous , especially in this particular raft of legislation , that there are confused rules , regulatory vacuums and rules that only lay down undefined legal concepts . 
This is all the worse - as is the case with the second part of this reform - when responsibility for implementing the legislation lies with national authorities . 
Thirdly , it seems to me important that the Commission should play a role in resisting the temptation to create independent agencies which would distort the very essence of the Commission , in order to guarantee uniform application by international bodies . 
Fourthly , and lastly - and this has already been mentioned - the international legal order has changed . 
We have seen this in the aborted Seattle Conference and we are now seeing it in the bilateral conferences with different regions or countries of the world . 
The principle of competition must now be universal in its application . 
We must monitor compliance with environmental standards , employment standards , in order to prevent dumping in this area , and we must ensure scrupulous respect for property rights and the revision of state aid , which in many industries - as has already been said - distorts competition and destroys jobs within our own territory . To sum up , we should apply similar conditions that will prevent aid , internal distortions by other countries , from being transferred to the international arena , in other words , through trickery . 
