Mr President , chocolate was the topic of a stormy debate at first reading . This was justified and not without results . 
Justified because the original proposal focused exclusively on the internal market . 
The Commission only took a passing interest in the quality of the product and had no consideration whatsoever for the ethical and legal obligations we have towards developing countries . 
The discussion was not without results either . 
Upon serious analysis of the common position , it has to be said that democracy works . 
We did not sit passively on the fence , muttering under our breath , but took a pro - active approach in tabling amendments . 
Should we assent to other legislation ? 
Fine , if that is what is to be done , but could we do so on our terms , please . 
We only wanted tropical fats ; the common position provides an exhaustive list of them . 
We wanted double labelling , the common position has given it to us , only it would have been preferable to have the additional designation on the front of the packaging . 
We wanted an impact study . 
We are getting one , two and a half years after the directive has entered into force . 
We wanted the Commission to draft an amendment proposal , if need be . 
Well now , the Commission will need to do so and we can then amend it again if necessary . 
We did not want comitology for essential amendments . 
We are getting codecision . 
And we asked for more precise measuring methods ; in my opinion , the Ispra research institute has acquitted itself of this task quite admirably . 
Many of us in this House were displeased with the Commission proposal . 
We were unable to ban fats other than cocoa , but we managed to condition their use in such a way that developing countries are actually finding the present text to be acceptable and that quality chocolate containing cocoa only can be distinguished from other chocolate . 
Mr President , as shadow rapporteur for the PPE - DE Group , I am proud of the fact that virtually all amendments from first reading , which have impacted so heavily on the common position , are the product of our own hands . 
As such , no more amendments have been submitted on behalf of the PPE - DE , but some of my colleagues will support amendments submitted by others , especially since it is our amendments from first reading which are being copied . 
Even if none of the amendments survive , the result is still worth seeing . 
I would like to finish off with the following thought . 
In the debate on chocolate , the word ethics was used more than once . 
To me , ethical behaviour also implies that , if this House scored a victory , we should be able to say so and underline this . 
If a victory is achieved , one should be able to enjoy it too . 
Perhaps we ought to learn to do this one day . 
Mr President , it has taken us twenty - five years to come to the point of a common position which represents a real compromise . 
I want to pay tribute to Mr Lannoye . 
He is a parliamentarian of considerable skill , and he has argued his case throughout with force and conviction . 
But he undervalues his own contribution to this debate , because it is what he has done and others have done that have led us to a position which can be fairly regarded as a compromise . 
Those who deny that and say that we are still in the position of total obstruction , are really admitting - as those are who wish in the vote tomorrow to reject the common position - that they do not want this directive at all . 
They do not want to see the addition of vegetable fats anywhere , in any Member State , in any form , for anything called chocolate . 
That is not a position which either the majority of the Member States or the majority of consumers in the European Union would accept for one minute , and I want to use my brief time to argue the contrary case . 
If we move on from harmonisation at nought - percent vegetable fat , which has always been in the campaigning argument , we move to a position where we ask for safeguards for consumers , for the primary producers , and essentially for the standards that we set ourselves in the European Union . 
The amendments that came before the Environment Committee , with the exception of the few that were passed , were wrecking amendments . 
They were designed to postpone , for the lifetime of this Parliament and the lifetime of this Commission , any resolution of this issue , and that is not acceptable . 
They called for impact studies to come into force before the directive itself can take effect or all manner of additional labelling over and beyond the double labelling on the packet which is provided here for the consumers . 
My Group supports the common position with some exceptions , and they will all make themselves heard in this debate . 
We believe that this is good for consumers . They get a wider choice of product and separate and distinctive labelling . 
It is good for the manufacturers of all the vegetable fats and I include cocoa butter in this . 
Cocoa butter is the predominant component of all forms of chocolate , as it will continue to be , also for those who have produced the natural vegetable fats , a specific list which can only be altered with the advice and consent of this Parliament . 
If I came from Burkina Faso or Mali or one of the countries that produced beurre de karité and I was told that the women ' s cooperatives who collect the shea nuts that are a substantial part of their exports to Europe , will be banned or put at risk because they are seen to be stooges of the multinationals , I would be very angry indeed . 
The last point that I have time to make is to the producers of quality chocolate by the specialised methods we see in Belgium and some other areas . 
Quality argues for itself . 
You can have additional labelling if you want . 
People like me will continue to eat it , but we want people to have the widest choice of all the products which will expand the import of cocoa and added vegetable fats into the European Union . 
Mr President , the average citizen who hears about this debate on the chocolate directive will lick their lips at the thought of feasting on all kinds of delicacies . 
After all , chocolate is also considered a stimulant , unfortunately . 
Even as a new member of this Parliament , I am feeling the strain of the lengthy discussions on this topic and I cannot shake off the impression that chocolate has generated anything but a pleasurable experience in this Parliament . 
This agony will come to an end today . 
There are many interested parties in this discussion : the cocoa producers , the producers of vegetable fats , non - governmental organisations , chocolate producers and many more . 
They are all interesting in their own way , but most interesting of all is the consumer , in my opinion . 
The most important principle is that of the consumer ' s freedom of choice . 
We politicians need to show some prudence in this respect . 
After all , there is no accounting for taste . 
The European Parliament cannot and should not prescribe a harmonised euro taste . 
As far as we are concerned , there is no need for warnings in flashing neon letters on the front of chocolate packaging . 
After all , chocolate is not exactly a product like cigarettes . 
There are , of course , other interests which need to be taken into consideration . 
For example , we need to be aware of the precarious situation of the countries where the ingredients for chocolate originate . 
Prudence is called for once again . 
After all , there are conflicting interests involved . 
The countries that Ivory Coast exports cocoa to also import other competing ingredients from countries such as Mali and Burkina Faso . 
The Council ' s common position as it is now before us attempts to accommodate all these interests . 
We feel that it is lacking in one or two areas . 
The best that can be said of this compromise is that none of the parties involved have been indulged completely . 
There are no winners , but there are no losers either . 
Most members of the Liberal Group can tolerate this precarious balance . 
We therefore support the common position and believe that the directive should be adopted as soon as possible . 
Let us proceed with the order of the day and put chocolate to its intended use , namely enjoyment . 
Mr President , Commissioner , since we cannot reject the directive on chocolate which is , as it stands , unacceptable , Parliament is duty bound , at the very least , to improve it . 
In the first place , we must ask ourselves what is the relevance of this directive which is going to change the definition of chocolate . 
The European Parliament must be aware that the Codex Alimentarius , which dictates the composition of chocolate internationally , stipulates that it is made from cocoa butter . 
What right , then , has the European Union , with regard to the food traditions of some Member States who incorrectly describe products including vegetable fats other than cocoa butter as ' chocolate '  , to enforce a change in the very definition of what chocolate is ? 
In authorising the addition of 5 % of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter today , the European Parliament is opening the way to many other impostures . 
What is there to stop us , in future , describing oil to which palm oil has been added as olive oil ? 
In the second place , if the text of the common position goes unchanged , then consumers will be needing a magnifying glass in order to examine the composition of chocolate products . 
This is really why I am urging my fellow Members to vote in favour of the amendments which will enable consumers , at the very first glance , to distinguish real chocolate from chocolate made with vegetable fats other than cocoa butter . 
Finally , as producing countries , already aware that cocoa prices are today at rock bottom , we are in danger of making them collapse completely , if we adopt this position . 
In order to avoid chaos in producing countries , the European Parliament must demand an impact study on the export situation . 
I therefore call upon you to support all the amendments presented by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection . 
Mr President , Commissioner , as all chocolate - lovers know , proper chocolate is made from cocoa butter . 
The addition of any other fats spoils the flavour . 
Indeed the 1973 directive , which prohibited the use of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter , was intended to safeguard this quality . 
With the inclusion of new countries in the European Union , some derogations to this strict ban came to be granted . 
Harmonisation was essential in the name of the free movement of goods . 
The Commission then had the choice of setting the European standard at the maximum quality level and extending the ban to all Member States but , under pressure from multinational companies wishing to reduce their production costs , in April 1996 the Commission proposed a directive authorising the addition of a minimum level of vegetable fats . 
At first reading , Parliament got involved in a dangerous procedure of accepting the directive subject to certain conditions . 
The Council leapt into the breach , adopting its common position , which recognises the designation ' chocolate ' even for products with other vegetable fats added . 
Once again we see the concept of profits for the few triumph over quality for all . 
At second reading , however , the European Parliament can thwart this directive which would have serious implications if it were applied . 
Both consumers and small specialist chocolate - makers would suffer a reduction in quality and standards would be reduced to the lowest level . 
ACP cocoa - producing countries would experience a considerable reduction in their market and their income . 
This would involve more than USD 300 million for the Ivory Coast alone . 
To say that they are extremely worried is an understatement . 
Out of concern for the interests of consumers and the ACP countries , the great majority of my Group is in favour of banning the use of vegetable fats in order to safeguard the authenticity and the quality of real chocolate . 
We have therefore tabled a motion to reject the Council ' s common position . 
The small specialist chocolate - makers came to warn Members of Parliament at January ' s part - session in Strasbourg . 
So , I ask all the Members who declared their solidarity with them to support our motion . 
Mr President , consumer protection is our prime concern . 
The issue of the directive on the production and sale of chocolate is thus just as important . 
The European Union must lead the way in simplification , confidence , authenticity and respect for differences . 
Since 1973 , European legislation has stipulated that the designation ' chocolate ' must be given to products containing only cocoa and cocoa butter . 
Some Member States have enjoyed a derogation from this law since acceding to the Union . 
That is fine , let everyone have their own chocolate bar in their own home . 
In a shop in my own home town , in Reims , I wish to be able to purchase a bar of chocolate produced according to the gastronomic traditions of my own country , without having to inspect the product on all sides and to put my glasses on in order to check its quality . 
This labelling frenzy is admittedly necessary since there has been a loss in confidence , but , ladies and gentlemen , if you give up a specific definition of chocolate , then at least do so clearly and openly . 
I therefore urge you to support Amendments Nos 29 and 18 . 
Tastes are certainly culturally conditioned . 
If you yield to the compromise , then a foodstuff will be admitted into our territory which is described as ' chocolate ' but which is not chocolate , as far as we are concerned . 
We are defending the concept of authentic chocolate . 
Cocoa butter is the very essence of chocolate . Let us respect the guarantee of flavour that it offers . 
It is not enough to publish a White Paper on food safety in order to reassure consumers . 
It is not up to the small specialists and the small - sized businesses to invent a way to promote their know - how or to identify their special features with a label indicating , for example ,  ' pure chocolate ' or ' pure cocoa butter '  . 
We are condemning an entire sector of specialists and SMEs if we accept any other definition of chocolate . 
Today ' s vote is a symbolic one . 
We must prioritise information for consumers and the interests of African cocoa - producing countries , associated to Europe under the Lomé Convention . 
Surely scheduling an economic impact study years after the application of a directive belongs to the realm of the absurd ? 
In order to appease the multinationals , consumers would have their lives made more complicated as labelling would become more creative and reassuring , small specialist chocolate makers would have to establish a ' quality chocolate ' label , cocoa - exporting countries would have to adapt . . . and you dare to speak to us of a Europe that is close to the citizens , that is generous , transparent and respectful of cultural differences ! 
We want none of your compromise chocolate , we are too familiar already with the Federalist recipe . 
 ' Entente culinaire ' between peoples is a difficult issue , it reflects our differences in too clear and practical a manner , and does not work towards all - out harmonisation . 
You should know , ladies and gentlemen , that making Europe tasteless will not contribute to its popularity . 
Mr President , for centuries , cows have eaten grass and chocolate has been made from cocoa . 
Then , a few years ago , Great Britain , which gave the world meat served with jam , hooligans and Adam Smith , started to feed cows on cadavers and to manufacture chocolate without cocoa . 
These aberrations should have remained confined to the British Isles , but doing away with borders within Europe has allowed adulterated chocolate to move freely , to the extent that today , in seven out of our fifteen countries , without being aware of it , consumers are swallowing chocolate that has been tampered with , and that includes Mr Haider ' s Austria which , in that respect , has something in common with Mr Guterres ' Portugal . 
In order to reassure us , we are told that the imitation cocoa is restricted to six tropical products : illipe from Borneo , butter from shea nuts - which are also used to manufacture aircraft engine oil - etc . As we go from directives to amendments , however , these six products become seven , eight , nine , up to and including soya , oilseed rape and GMOs . 
We are also told that the cocoa fraud will be limited to 5 % to begin with , then to 10 % , not to mention that no check will ever be carried out , in the same way that , for example , the boxes of Chiquita bananas are not checked , which are supposed to weigh eighteen kilograms and in fact weigh twenty . 
The checks are pointless in any case , as we are told that the margin of error is 1 % , whereas scientists tell us that it is in fact 40 % . 
We are told above all to ' eat and drink without fear , you are protected by the label '  . 
Yet the label is a deception in graphic terms because it is illegible and a hypocrisy in scientific terms because the mention of ' palm oil '  , for example , is drowned among the list of ingredients . 
Just as in the case of port we are not told ' South African counterfeit '  , for cocoa we are not told ' counterfeit '  . 
Then , lacking arguments to justify the chocolate fraud , the multinationals say ,  ' You must accept 5 % , or there will be wholesale fraud . ' 
What then ? 
All you have to do is call the product ' shea - late ' if it is made from shea nuts , or ' soya - late ' if it is made from soya , but not ' chocolate '  . 
The 388 000 tonnes of French chocolate , for example , must be made from cocoa , and the French turnover of FRF 19 billion , for example , must be earned honestly by small specialists . 
It is a legal obligation with regard to the Ivory Coast and African farmers . We are linked by the Lomé convention and by the convention on commodities which the European Union has signed , with reference to cocoa . 
It is also a financial obligation . 
If we do not fulfil it , then we shall be forced to compensate for the losses in these countries under the Stabex system . 
It is an obligation in terms of health and food safety , since the substitutes for cocoa , such as Brazil nuts , may cause immunological reactions . 
Finally , it is a question of honesty , of morality . 
Let us put an end to this widespread dishonesty , where you begin with a product incorrectly described as chocolate and you end with a Commission incorrectly described as European , whose members are Americanically - modified organisms and whose standard is a flag of convenience concealing a globalist cargo . 
Mr President , Commissioner , genetically modified organisms and mad cow disease were not enough to temper the enthusiasm of those involved in food manipulation . 
Humans are continuing to play the sorcerer ' s apprentice , juggling with food safety . 
Here , courtesy of industrial lobbying , we have chocolate with added vegetable fats . 
Its cocoa content is going to be reduced by 15 % but it is still going to be entitled to the designation ' chocolate '  . 
This is the crux of the problem . 
There is a clear lack of transparency , and yet we distinguish butter from margarine . 
There will perhaps be a discreet entry , in small letters on the back of the package , indicating its new composition . 
There will be deterioration in the quality , of course , but also in the flavour , and the goods are clearly not what they are represented as being . 
This is unfair competition , with this ersatz , pseudo - chocolate being sold cheaper than pure chocolate manufactured by craftsmen with proper respect for authenticity , ethics and tradition . 
It offers the prospect of large profits , however , for the multinationals , who have been working behind the scenes for around fifteen years to achieve their ends , i . e . having the derogations granted , on the occasion of a number of countries ' joining the Union , extended to become the general rule . 
On the other hand , it represents a cause for concern among small specialist chocolate - makers and also developing countries which are cocoa producers , whose compensation is being seriously considered . 
Finally , there is one major problem , while today we know how to detect vegetable fats in chocolate , we are still incapable of identifying and quantifying them . 
There is , therefore , no traceability and the door is open to all sorts of abuses . 
As far as we are concerned , the use of the designation ' chocolate ' should be prohibited for any product which contains ingredients other than sugar and cocoa . 
We must not mislead the consumer by giving the name ' chocolate ' to just anything . 
Europe must not become an accomplice in cheating , in the manipulation of food , at a time when food safety is becoming one of its priorities . 
Europe must not adopt the lowest possible standards . 
It must ensure the quality of food products and consumer health . 
In the light of these principles , we are unable to endorse the aims of this directive . 
Rejecting it would represent a strong message to our citizens and a responsible attitude adopted by Parliament . 
This is the thrust of our amendment . If not , when will we see wine made without grapes and butter without cream ? 
