Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the common position on the chocolate directive is about a directive - and I quote the chocolate industry lobby verbatim for the occasion - which creates a truly unified market for chocolate products whilst upholding the national chocolate traditions . The directive also offers comprehensive information to the consumer and safeguards the interests of the developing countries . 
But is this actually true ? 
I will start with the information for the consumer . 
The Commission has freely admitted that there is no foolproof detection method . 
The margin of error is 2 % . 
At 5 % , this is even 50 % more . 
This seems to be unacceptable to me . 
Furthermore , inspection depends on the type of chocolate and the information which the producer wishes to provide . 
We are not taking ourselves and the consumer , in particular , seriously if we introduce a directive which we cannot monitor adequately . 
I would now like to comment on the third - world interests . It concerns me greatly that both those for and against the common position keep bringing up the same arguments . 
Those " for " claim that the common position will benefit the third - world counties while those " against " say that more than 1 million farmers in western Africa stand to suffer from it as a result . 
Which is it and which will it be ? 
Is it really asking too much to want to check what the effects of this directive will be on , for example , export and the sustainable development of cocoa - producing countries ? 
Finally , ladies and gentlemen , I really need to get something else off my chest . 
Rightly or wrongly , it is said that this Parliament should not accept any amendments at the risk of jeopardising this delicate compromise . 
Well , if that is the case and if that is an argument , I suggest we pack our bags and go home now . 
Each common position always strikes a delicate balance between national interests , environmental conditions and social considerations . 
The European Parliament must have its input in this dossier and ensure that the common position is amended on a number of points and becomes a directive which benefits the consumer and the third world alike . 
Mr President , one of the joys of spending time in Belgium and France is the pleasure of these countries ' chocolate . 
It is wonderful , but millions of people in Europe also enjoy the British product . None of them come to any harm in the process . 
Whatever its content they are happy to call this product chocolate . 
It is insulting for us to play semantic games about the definition of this word . 
The citizens we represent are not fools . 
They can tell the difference between different varieties of chocolate and they have to be allowed to decide for themselves . 
I have no doubt that this compromise will help the overall market increase . 
The harsh fact is that none of us , Belgians , French or British , are paying the cocoa growers a fair price for their efforts and the contrast between our enjoyment of this luxury product and their poverty is shameful . 
Mr President , on the present issue I represent a minority of the members of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left . 
I consider that there is really no need for this directive and that it is unnecessary . 
I think it is absolutely excellent that we should have different rules about chocolate in different Member States . 
In this area there is no need for harmonisation at EU level . Instead , the previous system can be retained . 
If there is in fact to be harmonisation , which is what the Council of Ministers appears to have opted for , I think it is better to allow content of up to five per cent of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter . 
In that way , you can still have both sorts of chocolate and choose which you want to buy according to personal taste or national tradition . 
The alternative , that is to say of prohibiting other vegetable fats , means also prohibiting a large quantity of chocolate products which people like and are used to eating . 
I think that is completely unnecessary . 
What is , however , important is that chocolate should be clearly labelled , which is something I think has been provided for in the proposal , and that consumers should be able to choose which products they in fact want to purchase and eat . 
Nor is it certain that the Third World , all in all , would benefit from other vegetable fats being prohibited as added ingredients . 
For one thing , other tropical fats such as shea butter would be treated unfairly , and certain countries would in that way suffer . 
For another , the total market for chocolate products would probably decrease and thereby also , perhaps , the level of consumption of cocoa butter . 
My conclusion is that I should ideally like to see the old arrangement maintained , with different rules in different countries . 
However , since that is no longer possible , I think that the common position is acceptable . 
Mr President , in many ways , I think that we are about to end up with a good compromise on the directive relating to cocoa and chocolate products , thanks especially to Mr Paul Lannoye ' s efforts . 
I am very much in favour of clear labelling . 
It means proper information for consumers and , because a number of countries have so far only been familiar with chocolate in which cocoa butter is used as vegetable fat , it may be relevant for consumers in these countries to learn that another vegetable fat has been used . 
On the other hand , I do not think that it can , or ought to be , implied that chocolate in which , for example , shea nuts are used as vegetable fat is necessarily of poorer quality than chocolate in which the vegetable fat used is cocoa butter . 
There are absolutely no objective criteria for saying that , and the Council is quite rightly leaving it to consumers to judge the quality . 
We must not forget that shea nuts are just as essential to the countries which export them as cocoa is to the cocoa - exporting countries . 
Any future investigation of the effects of the present directive upon developing countries ' exports ought therefore also to include both cocoa and shea nuts . 
What , for me , is most important of all is that there must be no enzymatic or genetic modifications to the vegetable fat in chocolate . 
A ban of this kind is the only means through which we can give developing countries a guarantee that they can go on at all exporting the goods which they produce by natural means . 
Mr President , Commissioner , it is a known fact that chocolate made from pure cocoa butter induces a state of euphoria . 
The same cannot be said for this directive which we had absolutely no need of . 
Nor , surely , can it be said of this chocolate adulterated with vegetable fats recommended by the Council , which unfortunately did not follow the European Parliament ' s recommendations at first reading . 
Indeed there would be a great deal to say about the attitude of some delegations within the Council . 
Today ' s consumer has had enough of being deceived . 
What is the Council putting forward to solve the problem ? 
A tiny piece of difficult - to - read information , hidden on the back of the product wrapper . 
This is not what we are asking for . The consumer will not be able to make an informed choice . 
We want the information to be obviously and clearly displayed on the front side of the product wrapper . 
This is what we achieved in the European Parliament at first reading . 
We know that the cost of the fats capable of replacing cocoa is much less . 
That is why big industry is so much in favour of them . 
Making things cheaper and cheaper : what image of Europe does that present ? 
No matter nowadays what the consumer wants , what the consumer ' s preferences are , no matter the fact that public opinion wants ever greater transparency ! 
Who today can claim to be able to monitor this infamous 5 % of vegetable fats which would replace the pure cocoa butter ? 
Nobody . 
So what is to be done ? 
Let us , fortunately , trust our SMEs , the small specialist chocolate - makers , who are going to have to work on a quality label . 
This is what the consumer wants . 
And let us , most especially , support our rapporteur , Mr Lannoye . 
Thank you very much , Mrs Grossetête . 
Welcome
Ladies and gentlemen , before we continue , allow me , on behalf of the House , to welcome Mr Herman De Croo , President of the House of Representatives of the Belgian Parliament and a delegation from the Federal Consultative Committee on European issues , of which Mr De Croo is also Chairman . 
It would be remiss of me not to remind you at this juncture about the excellent and stable relationship between the European Parliament and the Belgian Parliament which , as a result of the commitment to the European cause of most of our Belgian colleagues , has always gone beyond simple good neighbourliness , a mutual duty that we have both generously respected . 
On the eve of the Intergovernmental Conference , and at a point when work is under way by the Convention responsible for drafting the European Charter of Fundamental Rights , we can only hope that relations between the Belgian Parliament and our institution will continue to be exemplary . 
We shall all do our utmost to ensure that the visit by Mr de Croo and his colleagues is a great success . 
Cocoa and chocolate products ( continuation ) 
Mr President , Mr De Croo , after debating for 25 years , we are gathered here once again to discuss chocolate , such a polemical debate for such a sweet subject . 
We are talking about harmonisation , the harmonisation of tastes , of habits and , almost , of cultures . 
In short , chocolate is a dividing factor and the divisions are neither ideological nor even national , whatever some parties might think . 
What makes defending cocoa - producing countries an ideological matter , I ask you ? It is an ethical matter . 
In terms of the social aspect , we are talking about millions of families who make their living from cocoa production . 
We have made formal commitments to them . 
So what is the reason for this time limit ? 
Sixty - six months to carry out a study of the impact of this directive , such a time period is enough to cause irreparable damage to the export structures of these countries . 
The potential impact must be investigated in advance , that is clear . 
Moreover , if we must have harmonisation , for a consumer that is ever more demanding about the quality of what he eats and who , incidentally , has asked for nothing and has absolutely nothing to gain in this matter , in my view , the absolute minimum would be to limit the quality label or any other label of excellence to 100 % cacao chocolate , real chocolate . 
Any other sort of harmonisation would mean lowering standards and that is not the sort of Europe that the consumer wants . 
Mr President , rules make sense if their purpose is to protect people against the power of money , against health risks and against poverty . 
If the European Union lays down rules governing the production of chocolate , then these should be geared to protecting the cocoa farmers in the third world , especially in Africa . 
Rules are also important to protect consumers against genetic modification and against the addition of unexpected substances . 
Lastly , rules are important to protect expertise and craftsmanship within Europe . 
What is now threatening to happen is at complete odds with this . 
Should free trade be granted absolute priority ? 
This may fit in rather well with the development currently taking place within the European Union . 
A social - democratic and christian - democratic project is being developed to put protective measures in place within a highly liberalised economy in which anything goes , and which promotes competition and considers the consumer ' s freedom of choice to be sacrosanct . 
The price to be paid for this , by African farmers in particular , is too high . 
I value the attempts made by Mr Lannoye to keep these negative developments within bounds , but it would be better still to continue to offer full protection against the processing of other products and cocoa butter . 
A number of papers have been circulated to Members before this particular debate , and I would just like to highlight one from the rapporteur where he says that the only beneficiaries of the entry into force of the text proposed by the Council will be the chocolate multinationals . 
Whilst I respect the commitment of the rapporteur to his cause , I suggest to the House that is nonsense . 
This is not just a matter for big business : it is of great concern to little consumers , millions of them throughout the EU who wish for and deserve the right to choose , without having pejorative labelling applied to the product . 
Mr Lannoye says that he has gone back to retable some of the original amendments . 
I suggest to the House that this is not a time to go back - this is a time to move on , to move forward . 
This is a single market issue ; this House should not be standing in the way of the completion of the single market but should be actively promoting it . 
If I could share one brief historical fact with the House concerning my own country : the first mention of solid chocolate being sold in the UK was in 1657 when a Frenchman opened a shop in London . 
So if it was legal in 1657 for a Frenchman to sell his chocolate in London , can I suggest to the House that , some 350 years later , it should at long last be legal for an Englishman , or indeed any other EU national , to sell his chocolate throughout the EU including the country of the rapporteur . 
Mr President , 25 years ' discussion of the great existential issues surrounding chocolate and what it is and is not makes the European Union as an institution look slightly ridiculous . 
The present debate has perhaps given me , as a war child , a certain insight into how things were when the peoples of Europe were killing each other for values symbolised by rather more important things than chocolate . 
After all , this is not a product which is a threat to people ' s health . 
Neither Scandinavian , Belgian nor British chocolate is dangerous . 
It is not a product which affects the environment to any great degree . 
The whole issue is therefore somewhat ridiculous . 
As for the developing countries , I want to say that , if Britons , Scandinavians and others are not allowed to eat the chocolate they ate as children , they would certainly eat marshmallows or jelly babies instead on a Saturday evening . 
Where is the benefit in that for the Third World ? 
Mr President , we are in no position , here in the European Parliament , to state that one type of chocolate is better or worse than another . 
Nor can we say that one kind tastes better and another worse . 
Rather , we shall leave it to the individual consumer to judge which kind tastes best and is of the highest quality . 
Consumer choice is the basic principle of the market economy and , as politicians , we should not be instrumental in running a kind of nanny State . 
Malta ' s former prime minister , Dom Mintoff , attempted during the 1970s to reduce chocolate imports and to alter the way in which chocolate was consumed by tourists and by his own people . 
With Chinese help , a chocolate factory was built on the island , but consumers did not like the locally produced chocolate and chocolate consumption fell . 
If we direct developments in such a way as to create a situation in which there is only the one tradition of chocolate manufacture within the EU , cocoa - producing countries will be in danger of losing out since there would be a great risk of total chocolate consumption within the EU appreciably decreasing . 
Let us not , therefore , make the same mistake as Dom Mintoff . 
The proposal that information about the contents of certain forms of chocolate should be provided on the front of the packaging is discriminatory and completely unjustified . 
It would be more like the kind of warning you find on cigarette packets . 
The chocolate war has been raging within the EU for 25 years . 
It has made ourselves as politicians and the EU as an institution look faintly ridiculous . 
In the future EU , too , and within a society characterised by diversity , there must be room for two traditions of chocolate manufacture . 
We now have the opportunity to bring the 25 year - old European chocolate war to an honourable end for all the parties concerned . 
We ought therefore to adhere precisely to the common position . 
Mr President , I am Belgian and I am not opposed to the common position . 
If the chocolate which I love so much were to be at risk or if the tradition of Belgian chocolate manufacturers were to be in danger , then I would , of course , be opposed to it . 
I bought some chocolate here in Strasbourg this morning and the French sales assistant explained to me quite clearly what exactly I was buying . 
The designation on the front of the product states : Prestige noir intense 72 % cacao and in gold lettering , which , in France , is quite something , chocolat belge . 
So I know what I bought . 
In my opinion , the pending directive will make it even easier for producers of quality chocolate to set themselves clearly apart from the others if they so wish . 
I do concur with the rapporteur on one point . 
The producers of cocoa beans , namely the small farmers in the poor third - world countries , are vulnerable . 
We need to keep a close eye on them and this is why I am in favour of a study being carried out by the Commission on the effects of the directive , no more than two years after the introduction of this directive . 
So let us now deal with this matter once and for all and ensure that everyone can eat the chocolate they fancy and that a real internal market can be established for chocolate . 
Mr President , the common position on cocoa and chocolate products is the result of long and involved discussions . 
It constitutes a delicate compromise which was difficult to achieve but which is well - balanced . 
Through the common position , the free movement of cocoa and chocolate products was introduced , but with strict conditions governing production and consumer information . 
It is permitted to add vegetable fat other than cocoa butter to the minimum quantity of cocoa required in accordance with the Directive , but no more than five per cent . 
Only those substances listed in the annex may be used . 
They are all of tropical origin and produced in ACP countries . 
The presence of these substances must be indicated separately but in the same area of the packaging as the product name and list of ingredients . 
Consumers will then be able to choose and to distinguish these products from those which are manufactured exclusively from cocoa . 
These conditions and restrictions , which are not linked to health issues , are the fulcrum of the common position . 
The common position also provides answers to the questions and concerns of consumers , of cocoa - producing countries and of countries which produce chocolate , with or without vegetable fats . 
Any change would seriously upset the balance of the agreement which the Council has agreed upon and would be doomed to fail . 
Parliament ' s recommendation on second reading contains two amendments . 
The first amendment reiterates the Commission ' s policy , and this can be approved . 
The second really does not belong in a separate Directive because releases of genetically modified organisms onto the European market must be handled in a uniform and comprehensive way , which is what happens within the framework of the provisions governing the voluntary spread of genetically modified organisms in the environment and in the regulation concerning new foods and new food ingredients . 
The second amendment may nonetheless be approved in principle . 
There must be a more thorough examination of the consequences of these amendments against the background of the World Trade Organisation ' s pronouncements and the Montreal protocol . 
The other amendments , which were rejected by the Commission ' s Directorate - General for the Environment , concern questions of special significance to the balance of the common position and cannot therefore be approved . 
The common position involves a real compromise and is a clear advance on the legislation currently applicable . This hails back to the 1970s and is very incomplete , especially when it comes to labelling and consumer information . 
To summarise , it is only Amendments Nos 1 and 2 which may be approved , and this for the aforesaid reasons . 
 -  ( PT ) Mr President , I rise to speak on a point of order concerning the need to uphold the respect due to the European Parliament and its Members . 
As you will all remember , during the last part - session here in Strasbourg , the European Parliament debated and adopted a resolution in which it condemned and stated its concern at the difficult conditions under which journalists work in Angola . It also condemned the trials they are constantly subjected to and the consequent lack of free speech and absence of a free press . 
One of the Members who spoke in this debate was Mário Soares , who also supported the resolution adopted by a majority of this House . 
Quite unexpectedly , the Angolan government , through one of its ministers and also one of its Members of Parliament , reacted to Mário Soares ' participation in the debate with defamation , slander and insults , accusing Mr Soares , with no evidence whatsoever , of being one of the main beneficiaries of the illegal diamond and ivory trade allegedly being carried out by UNITA , the main opposition to the MPLA in Angola . 
These unacceptable statements by the Angolan Government not only affect Mário Soares . They affect all of us who adopted the resolution in question . 
Given these circumstances , Mr President , I would like to express my complete solidarity with Mr Soares in the face of the slanderous campaign that has been targeted at him . I also invite the President of the European Parliament to express to the Angolan Government , through the appropriate channels , this Parliament ' s most vehement and indignant protest at the insult that was also targeted at this House , and which represents , apart from anything else , an intolerable abuse of the principle of independence that Members enjoy in carrying out their duties . 
 -  ( PT ) Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I wish to express my total agreement with the speech that Mr Queiró has just made on this subject , and to introduce another element into the discussion . 
During the last part - session , in February , a debate was held on the situation in Angola and a resolution was adopted by this House . 
In response to this resolution , the Angolan Ambassador in Paris wrote a letter to the European Parliament , and in this letter , a copy of which I have here , he insinuated at a certain point that a fellow Member of this House , Mário Soares , has political , ideological and " other kinds " of links with the war criminal Jonas Savimbi . 
In addition to this letter , further statements were made , which are false , insulting and which attempt to undermine the dignity and honour of a fellow Member of this House , who has , in the past , been an excellent President of a Member State of the European Union . 
Mr President , we all have the right to express our opinions in this House and in a democracy . 
We may agree with something or we may not . 
What is unacceptable is that a state that maintains relations with the EU should be allowed to respond by attempting to undermine the dignity and honour of a fellow Member of this House . 
My question is , therefore , whether the President of the European Parliament has already responded to the Angolan Government through its Ambassador in Paris ? 
If it has already responded , what was the tenor of its response ? 
If it has not yet responded , it is crucial that this House is clear and unequivocal in repudiating the attitude of the Angolan Government towards our colleague , and therefore towards the European Parliament , an area of freedom and democracy in which we all have the right to express our opinion . 
Ladies and gentlemen , I understand the political , institutional and compassionate motives behind these speeches . 
I shall now give the floor to Mr Pacheco Pereira , who has asked to speak , but then I think we should stop because it would not be right to start a debate on a subject which , although important , was not on the agenda . 
In future , I will keep you informed of the decisions taken , or not taken , by our President , and of the activities for which she gives the go - ahead on your behalf . 
 -  ( PT ) Mr President , I share the objections of the Members who have just spoken about the unacceptability of a government such as that of Angola , which has for many years waged a civil war in that country and which has been accused by various organisations across the world of being corrupt , daring to attack the freedom of speech of a Member of the European Parliament who rightly criticised the abuse of human rights in Angola . 
I would also like to make it quite clear , however , that as regards the European institutions , this is not only a matter of ensuring that the European Parliament issues a protest and a repudiation . 
It would be useful if the Council , whose President is currently the Portuguese Prime Minister , could respond with equal vehemence to the criticism made of a Portuguese Member of this House , and did not maintain the equivocal stance that it has adopted concerning the offence that the Angolan Government has caused to that Member of this House , as well as to the institutions of the European Union . 
This House therefore clearly repudiates Angola ' s attitude and hopes that the EU Council Presidency will also clearly voice this repudiation and will not remain silent in the face of these accusations . 
I would like to thank Mr Queiró , Mr Seguro and Mr Pacheco Pereira for their speeches . 
Our President will make sure that the official representatives of Angola are informed of this protest and will pass on the request which just been made to the President - in - Office of the Council , so that the Council and its President - in - Office also take some initiative in reaction to these unspeakable attacks . 
We shall now proceed to the vote . 
Vote
Mr President , I regret causing some slight complications as regards the order of business of the plenary . 
Following consultation with other members of the Committee on Development and Cooperation I appeal to you to postpone the voting on this regulation until tomorrow . 
There are basically two reasons . 
One is that the deadline for a request for separate votes on the amendments should have been made by 7 p . m . yesterday . 
Because of a misunderstanding that request was not made in time . 
To pursue the voting as a block vote today would , to my mind , be unfortunate . 
Informal consultations with the Council have led me to believe that there is every possibility of being able to reconcile the differences that have existed between the Council and Parliament but if we vote en bloc we may forfeit that opportunity . 
The other reason has to do with comitology . 
We would benefit from additional discussions among party groups on certain details in relation to some of the amendments . 
Hence , I would ask you , as rapporteur , to follow my recommendation for postponement . 
 ( The vote was postponed until the following day ) 
Recommendation for second reading ( A5 - 0048 / 2000 ) , on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation , on the Council common position for adopting a European Parliament and Council regulation on measures to promote the conservation and sustainable management of tropical forests and other forests in developing countries [ 12487 / 1 / 1999 - C5 - 0014 / 2000 - 1999 / 0015 ( COD ) ]  ( Rapporteur : Mr Fernández Martín ) . 
Just to repeat what my colleague , Poul Nielson , stated yesterday , the Commission ' s position on the amendments is as follows . 
The Commission supports Amendment No 11 , in principle , and supports the following amendments : Amendments Nos 4 , 7 , 9 , 10 , 13 , 14 and 15 . The Commission does not support the following amendments : Amendments Nos 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , 6 , 8 and 12 . 
 ( Parliament approved the common position ( as amended ) ) 
Recommendation for second reading ( A5 - 0043 / 2000 ) , on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , on the common position established by the Council with a view to the adoption of a European Parliament and Council directive on port reception facilities for ship - generated waste and cargo residues [ 11195 / 1 / 1999 - C5 - 0251 / 1999 - 1998 / 0249 ( COD ) ]  ( Rapporteur : Mr Bouwman ) 
Amendment No 6 : 
Mr President , I just wanted to point out what repercussions a split vote would have . 
Normally , it is customary in parliamentary circles to vote on the most in - depth proposal first and then to move on to the less in - depth . 
Due to this split vote , we are now voting on the least in - depth first and are working our way up to the most in - depth . 
Since I am fairly new to this Parliament , I do not know how to deal with this , but I would at least recommend anyone who cares about the environment and who is in favour of the polluter pays principle , to vote for both split components . 
 ( Parliament approved the common position ( as amended ) ) 
Recommendation for second reading ( A5 - 0040 / 2000 ) , on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , on the Council common position for adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on the technical roadside inspection of the roadworthiness of commercial vehicles circulating in the Community [ 111287 / 1 / 1999 - C5 - 0323 / 1999 - 1998 / 0097 ( COD ) ]  ( Rapporteur : Mr Piecyk ) 
 ( Parliament approved the common position ( as amended ) ) 
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE - Recommendation for second reading of the Fernández Martín report ( A5 - 0048 / 2000 ) 
Mr President , I voted in favour of the common - sense considerations on the ecological disaster which threatens our planet if current developments continue . 
These concerns are , however , drowned out in a hotchpotch of irresolute declarations . 
Neither the Brussels Commission nor the European Parliament have any desire to act or even clearly name the parties responsible for these disastrous ecological developments . 
The European institutions confine themselves to pious hopes for the protection of the tropical forest , for example , while the major trusts of the wood industry , who are the industrial butchers of forests in any number of countries in south - east Asia or in Africa , foist their activities on the local populations . We know full well who they are . 
In a number of poor countries , of course , it is the population which is destroying the forests by clearing trees , either to find a minimum income , or to clear the way and gain access to land that they could not otherwise access . 
But to claim to incorporate the environmental aspect into the development process is pure hypocrisy when the ruling classes of rich countries are in fact blocking the poor countries ' path to development and are maintaining the majority of their populations in poverty . 
 . 
 ( FR ) The text of the report before us today fulfils the need to conserve tropical forests . 
The European Union and its Member States in fact have some responsibility for the conservation of an ecosystem which is essential to the environmental balance of the entire planet . 
This responsibility is a historical one , primarily , and is related to the commitments made by Member States to the countries where the bulk of the tropical forest is located . 
These historic links and expert knowledge must be made to serve the conservation of this ecosystem . 
Our responsibility also stems from our status as consumers : many consumer products in Europe come from these regions and generally have an adverse impact on the forest . 
Finally , the European Union actually includes large areas of tropical forest within the territory of its Member States , particularly France . 
The department of French Guyana , in particular , is almost entirely covered by this type of vegetation . 
In particular , the important thing is to enable real development in these areas , while respecting the culture and traditions of the inhabitants , without setting them in stone in a purely passive ecological conservation mode . 
The European Union can make a contribution in this field if it can manage to coordinate efforts and know - how without seeking to control or foist a single strategy on Member States . 
We have therefore backed the amendments of the PPE - DE , which support the flexibility necessary for the whole system . 
Recommendation for second reading of the Bouwman report ( A5 - 0043 / 2000 ) 
The recent wreck of the Erika oil tanker off the coast of Brittany increased the awareness among the general public of the problem , among others , of ' degassing '  , the illegal discharge of waste oils , detritus or other waste associated with vessel cargoes , which some unscrupulous ship ' s captains undertake while at sea . 
Although the breaches in the wreck had officially been sealed , oil slicks in fact continued to wash up on the shores , showing that either new leaks had appeared or that vessels passing through the vicinity were taking advantage of the situation to empty their tanks , or , probably , that both these things were occurring at the same time . 
In the jungle of maritime transport , such behaviour is , unfortunately , frequently encountered . 
It helps to make refuse sites of our seas and beaches , and to jeopardise the ecological balance of the marine environment . 
Just today , in fact , the European Parliament is examining , at second reading , a proposed directive which has been under discussion for two years , which draws the implications of the 1973 Marpol International Convention , ratified by all Member States , to the Community level . 
This convention makes it compulsory for vessels to dispose of their waste while in the port of call , in the port waste - disposal installations intended for the purpose , and , in return , requires the signatory states to construct appropriate installations . 
We can only applaud the proposed European directive which would make it possible to apply these principles . 
At the same time , however , we wish to ask the important question , which is : what is to become of the inspections ? 
The proposal envisages that vessels docking in a Community port may leave again only on presentation of certificates proving that the vessel ' s waste and cargo residues have indeed been disposed of in the appropriate installations . 
But what about vessels from outside the Community ? 
Will they also be asked for certificates ? 
And how will vessels that pass through our waters without docking into port be inspected ? 
We think that , to begin with , access to Member State ports should be banned for vessels which do not present such certificates , even if they are from outside the Community . 
Furthermore , the Member States , who , under the directive , are to make the commitment to step up in - port inspections , must also undertake to intensify their systems for inspections at sea . 
We know only too well the pressure of competition in maritime transport . 
There is no point in adopting conventions or directives if they are subsequently to remain dead letters for lack of inspection resources . 
 -  ( FR ) The report on which we are called to vote today is indicative of the position which the European Parliament wishes to adopt in the debate on maritime safety , brought to the fore once more by the tragic wreck of the Erika . 
Let me remind you that the proposed directive which we are discussing today is intended to improve the availability and the use of port waste - disposal facilities for operational waste and cargo residues . 
It is totally in keeping with the 73 / 78 Marpol Convention ( Prevention of Pollution from Ships ) , while concentrating more particularly on the waste - disposal facilities in ports . 
It forms part of the overall Community strategy for waste management and requires all ports to provide appropriate waste - disposal facilities , adequate for the needs of vessels . 
Today we face maritime pollution problems , which we must tackle head - on by adopting bold measures . 
The fact is , as the rapporteur points out , that regulations already exist , but they are not observed . 
The system generally applied is the one governed by the ' polluter pays ' principle , a principle which is outstanding in terms of its inefficiency ! 
This is why we need to find an alternative . 
Such an alternative is offered to us in an amendment which I supported . 
The amendment seeks to establish a system of charges which all vessels would have to pay systematically each time they dock in a port , whether or not they make use of the waste disposal facilities . 
These charges would be used to finance the relevant installations up to 90 % . 
This system would inevitably encourage vessels to dispose of their operational waste and cargo residues in port rather than degassing at sea , a deplorable practice which is commonplace nowadays . 
Everyone knows that some vessels even took advantage of the pollution caused by the wreck of the Erika to discharge their waste at sea . 
This is absolutely scandalous and intolerable . 
There are , however , examples of good practice , because the countries around the Baltic Sea have already been operating in this way since 1998 . 
I am well aware of the fact that this would cause upheaval in the organisation of the ports of many Member States and would entail additional costs for vessels . 
But this is no more than the price which must be paid in order to guarantee the cleanliness of the marine environment , especially since the directive envisages that it should be possible to identify the vessels which cause less pollution and to offer them reduced rates ? 
This system seems a fair one to me , and I therefore voted in favour of it . 
 -  ( FR ) This proposed directive is most welcome within the European Union . 
It forms part of the overall Community strategy for the reduction of marine pollution and for waste management and requires all Union ports , including yachting marinas , to provide appropriate waste - disposal facilities suited to the requirements of vessels . 
International regulations were already in existence , since the Marpol Convention imposes binding international regulations upon all vessels , according to which all discharges at sea are prohibited . 
The real problem , however , is the application and observance of these standards ! 
The fine ' polluter pays ' principle , so dear to many Member States , including my own , is far from being complied with ! 
The Erika disaster is testimony to this unfortunate state of affairs , as are the thirty - nine instances of degassing which went unpunished in the space of a single week ! 
This is why the European Parliament and its Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , confirming the outcome of the first reading in the previous legislative period , have proposed that every vessel entering a Member State port should bear 90 % of the costs of waste disposal and management , regardless of the actual use made of the facilities . 
We feel that this is the only realistic and fair way to prevent the illegal dumping of waste at sea . 
If the port facilities were in fact financed ( at a high level ) only by the vessels actually using them , then there would be grounds for fearing that many vessels would avoid these charges , since dumping waste at sea would prove less costly . 
Moreover , we wish to set the level for mandatory inspection at 25 % of all vessels . 
On the eve of the French Presidency of the European Union , this is the position which the French Socialists are preparing to champion . 
All I can do is urge this House to do as much . 
It is a political fight , in which our role , is it not , is to wage this campaign , even if it does lead use to make ambitious political decisions which occasionally go further than those of our own governments , and which are always far - reaching and positive ? 
 -  ( FR ) It is not possible to ignore , today , the fortuitous coincidence of the second reading of this proposed directive against maritime pollution with the topical news of the tragic wreck of the Erika . 
Admittedly , this text does not discuss accidental pollution , but we know full well that the implications of illegal degassing at sea are no less serious , even if it is a more insidious phenomenon . 
In the last week of February , 39 instances of illegal degassing were identified in the vicinity of the wreck of the Erika alone . 
Such practices are intolerable , but they are difficult to monitor , particularly at night or in foggy weather . 
The proposed directive and the amendment proposing to establish a standard charging scheme for vessels in ports , in all European ports , in order to finance the processing of shipboard waste , tackle the problem on two fronts : they force the ports to set up the facilities and the organisation to handle the shipboard operational waste , either under direct state control or by subcontracting to specialised competent operators , and , more importantly , they deter vessels from evading their obligation to dispose of waste since they will have to pay the price in any case . 
It is , however , essential to ensure that , as far as possible , this universal charge is shared across the board and is supported by national or European financial arrangements to enable smaller ports to gain access to waste processing services without their economic viability and thus their continuity suffering unduly . 
Subject to this condition , then , what this directive proposes is Europe ' s initial model response to the legitimate feeling aroused due to the pollution caused by the wreck of the Erika . 
To some extent , it marks the official acknowledgement and establishment of a European maritime area subject to shared regulations . 
 -  ( FR ) The Council must already have debated at length on the subject of this directive on port facilities for disposing of vessels ' operational waste , but its final text respected the principles of stepping up the protection of the marine environment while taking account of the real situation in each of the Member States , without disrupting national practices , and this is not true of the text of the report which has just been presented to us . 
A State such as France has already in fact implemented the terms of the Marpol Convention by guaranteeing that each port has top quality waste disposal and processing facilities , operated by private companies , which invoice the shipowner directly according to the type and nature of the waste . Reducing the costs for use by vessels deemed to be ' ecological ' is therefore only natural . 
This solution , which benefits the more environmentally friendly vessels , would seem to be much fairer than an arbitrary reduction in favour of the vessels labelled as ' ecological '  ,  ( and what would be the criteria for this ? ) or a standard contribution for the use of the facilities applied indiscriminately : we therefore refuse to replace a charging system based on the nature of the waste with a blind charging policy based on the volume of vessels , regardless of their level of risk to the environment . 
It must also be said that ' clearing ballast ' at sea is unfortunately to a very great extent exempt from the charging system . Only inspections at sea and more frequent inspections of vessels docking in ports would be likely to reduce the amount of dumping at sea . 
For all these reasons the UEN Group , recalling its agreement with the Council ' s common position , is now opposing the text of this report which has twisted the principles of the common position . 
The report urges Member States most strongly to face up to their responsibilities in full by implementing as soon as possible the inspection measures which , backed up by a system of penalties along the ' polluter pays / polluter cleans ' principle , would perhaps make it possible to prevent the recurrence of disasters such as the one which , recently , so scandalously disfigured the French coastline . 
Recommendation for second reading of the Piecyk report ( A5 - 0040 / 2000 ) 
 -  ( FR ) The European Parliament has today expressed its opinion of the proposed directive on the technical roadside inspection of the roadworthiness of commercial vehicles . 
It is indeed essential to improve the level of safety and to mitigate the environmental impact of these vehicles , the volume of which is constantly increasing . 
Setting up random mandatory roadside inspections in order to check their state of repair throughout the year is a pertinent idea , provided that it can be implemented effectively . 
This proposed directive would be an extremely useful complement to the efforts undertaken in towns and cities , especially in the form of urban transport plans , particularly in the conurbation around Rouen , which is crossed by 5 000 commercial vehicles daily . 
It is also important , as a matter of urgency , to consider having recourse to alternative means of transport for goods ( waterways , railways , etc . ) and to consider developing clean vehicles . 
These are the reasons why , ladies and gentlemen , I supported the proposed directive on the technical roadside inspection of commercial vehicles today . 
 ( The sitting was suspended at 12 . 35 p . m . and resumed at 3 p . m . ) 
EU Charter of Fundamental Rights
The next item is the report ( A5 - 0064 / 2000 ) by Mr Duff and Mr Voggenhuber , on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs , on the drafting of a European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
Madam President , the committee proposes to place a Charter of Fundamental Rights at the centre of the Union system , with mandatory effect upon the European Union , its institutions and the agencies . 
We do this because there is a great concentration of power at the centre of the Union and it is clearly necessary for the citizen to be protected from abuse of that power . 
