We believe that the Charter will have three principal effects : first , it will reinforce the constitutional character of the Treaty ; secondly , it will be a point of reference for those , including this Parliament , that wish to drive European integration forward with a greater degree of democratic legitimacy ; thirdly , a Charter that is stylish and forceful will strengthen the profile of the Union for its present and future citizens . 
This resolution mandates the European parliamentary delegation inside the Convention . 
The Convention has already started the process of drafting the Charter upon the principal lines that we propose and upon the presumption that the final result will be binding . 
A strong vote for this resolution will assist the Convention to complete its task and set criteria for this Parliament ' s final appraisal of the results . 
We should avoid becoming obsessed with the question of subsidiarity . 
The drafting of the Charter will certainly be informed by the application of that principle , but it is crucial that the Charter reflects modern European society with all its pluralism and with all its diversity . 
The effect of the Charter will be steady and gradual rather than sudden and revolutionary . 
There is also a controversy over the relationship between the new European Union Charter and the existing European Convention of Human Rights . 
We are proposing that the Union should itself sign up to the ECHR so that those rights inscribed in the existing Convention would form the solid core of the Charter . 
Madame President , our purposes are to write a charter that is so good that Member States will find it shameful to refuse to accept it within the jurisdiction of the European Court of Justice . 
The Charter represents a chance to build a modern post - national society , and marks a bold step forward from the sorrow and the pity of twentieth - century Europe . 
I strongly commend the resolution . 
 . 
 ( IT ) Madam President , the European Parliament is at last about to vote on the report , which has taken a great deal of time to prepare , on the drafting of the European Union ' s Charter of Fundamental Rights , and I hope that the patient work of the rapporteurs will be rewarded in this Chamber . 
What I mean to say is that I hope that the damaging amendments made by those who see in the drafting of the Charter of Fundamental Rights an attack on democracy , no less , will be rejected . 
And yet most of these rights already exist in the European Union as they are present in the Treaties , in the European Convention on Human Rights , in the institutional traditions common to the Member States and in the international conventions to which they all subscribe . 
What is there to fear in a Charter of Fundamental Rights ? 
This is only the formal ratification , the coherent expression of those sacrosanct individual rights , without which democracy would be reduced to a kingdom where the force of numerical strength reigns and the authorities may do as they please . 
The European Union means the peaceful , supportive coexistence of different peoples and cultures , based on its tradition of respect for the rights of individuals . 
The Charter will become a catalogue of shared principles which define Europe ' s identity before the world , an identity which is not based on blood ties , ethnic origin or national allegiance , but , indeed , on common values . 
In the careful recognition of common rights , there will have to be acknowledgement of those fundamental social rights which are intrinsically no different from the other , more obvious rights , such as the right of freedom to join a trade union , the right to fundamental health and safety in the workplace and training rights , which have never been so essential for growth , employment and competitiveness in the global market as they are now . 
There will have to be acknowledgement of the political rights of citizens and the human rights of every individual person . Fundamental rights will have to be defined in the face of fresh hazards . 
A catalogue of fundamental rights which are recognised as binding by the European institutions also sets out the duty of the citizens to respect them . 
The European Union is a civil , legal area of freedom , which is not just economic freedom but also freedom of security and justice , in a huge territory which , in the past , has been the site of repeated bloodshed . 
The site of clashes between opposing armies throughout the whole of the first half of the century , Europe is now on the way to becoming a guarantee of peace and freedom from fear and want . 
This is how we must see the Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
There is no reason for anyone to be afraid when the prevalence of rights over force is enshrined in the law . 
Madam President , Europe is founded upon fundamental rights . 
So is the American Constitution , namely upon our fundamental European rights and the ideas of John Locke and the French Revolution . 
American citizens can demand our European rights in their own courts , something which has provided them with empowerment , self - assurance and a pride in themselves . 
Fundamental rights can create identity and citizenship . 
They can also help individuals to take advantage of opportunities which are now arising in Europe through freedom of movement , the euro and information technology , that is to say the opportunities which are emerging in the new economy . 
The assets we have as Europeans in the form of cultural differences are easier to maintain and to accept if citizens know that they can claim their rights throughout the Union . 
Quite simply , freedom of movement demands a basis of guaranteed , fundamental rights . 
Enlargement of the Union without guaranteed rights could even turn into a fiasco and delay our economic development . 
A binding Charter is an indispensable requirement and a necessary part of a much - needed constitution . 
I want to warn against joining the Council of Europe ' s convention , especially if this step were not to be combined with a binding Charter . 
These complications ought to be studied more closely . 
I hope that we are to have a modernised version of the wording of Article 6 of the Council of Europe ' s convention in which our already existing rights are listed in a summarised and concentrated form , with modern biotechnology and data protection added . 
The Charter should be easy to communicate to citizens and be clear to them . 
It should not be divided into two or contain a whole lot of references . 
The Charter must be binding and embrace the European institutions . 
It cannot be fair for citizens to be left without protection against abuses by institutions resembling police forces , such as OLAF and Europol . 
This project will give rise to more powerful European individuals . 
Madam President , as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs , I will mainly focus on the issue of social fundamental rights . 
Social fundamental rights form part and parcel of traditional fundamental rights . 
For example , what use is the right to freedom of expression to someone who , owing to poverty and unemployment , suffers complete social exclusion ? 
There are social fundamental rights which , by their very nature , are identical to and , as such , simply form part of , the traditional civil freedom rights . 
There is , for example , the right of organisation and association which can be extended to the right of free negotiations on working conditions and the right of conducting collective action . 
These rights should therefore be included in the first part of the charter . 
In the case of other social fundamental rights , there should be a link between the way fundamental rights are worded and the effects thereof on the individual . 
These fundamental rights are thus often described as instruction standards which are implemented by authorities in social legislation . 
These are , however , no less essential to the charter as basic elements . 
Quite often , this category of fundamental rights keenly shows up the misconceptions people have as to this charter ' s significance at European level . 
The first misconception is that the EU charter will replace national guarantees for fundamental rights protection , as if , in future , individuals would need to call on the European Union and the European Court rather than their own authorities and courts , and as if fundamental rights on work , housing or social security would all of a sudden become European matters . 
This is not the case at all . 
No more so , in actual fact , than is the guarantee of freedom of expression or a fair hearing . 
The purpose of the charter is to incorporate these fundamental rights in the European institutions and European policy . 
This is , in fact , a reaction to a second common misconception . 
It is not the case that the charter would only contain rights for which the European Union would be the first authorised port of call . 
Even where the Union has no authority at all , policy measures which may be taken by or on behalf of the European Union can still infringe fundamental rights . 
Accordingly , fundamental rights which cannot be guaranteed at EU level but can be violated by the Union , belong in the charter . 
I would also like to comment on international treaties with regard to social fundamental rights . 
The opinion of the Social Committee lists a few of these treaties : the Council of Europe ' s European social charter and the ILO ' s and UN ' s core Convention . 
In Amendment No 22 to the Duff / Voggenhuber report , I argued that a reference to the ECHR should be placed in Article 6 of the Treaty of the Union , and that a reference to the to the ESC should be placed in the ILO ' s and the United Nations ' core Conventions . 
Another amendment , regarding a more far - reaching alternative , Amendment No 23 , stipulates that the ECHR , as well these social international standards should be acceded to . 
I would like to make one last remark regarding the necessity to establish a broad social basis and to enter into a dialogue with social organisations , even after completion of the charter . We will need to conduct this general discussion then too . 
Madam President , I would like , above all , to congratulate all the rapporteurs on the quality of their work . 
They have successfully stated the importance of this matter for the European Parliament , Europe and its citizens . 
The aim of this report is to give our fellow Members , who are members of the Convention , a clear and specific mandate detailing the expectations of the European Parliament and to give our fellow citizens clear evidence of our commitment to ensuring that their fundamental rights are properly respected by the institutions of the Union . 
The area of competence of the Committee on Petitions justifies its interest in the framing of the charter . 
The large numbers of petitions which it receives make it possible to assess the citizens ' perception of the Union and the rights they expect it to protect . 
The opinion of the Committee on Petitions is intended to bring to light the aspirations expressed by the Europeans who refer their cases to Parliament in matters of non - observance of rights granted by the European Union . 
The petitioners who write to us display a stubborn and unfailing conviction that they are entitled to a whole series of rights , thereby giving the impression that the European citizen is convinced that the Union actually already has a formal constitution wherein all these rights are enshrined , thus anticipating the decisions of the convention . 
So our opinion stresses two key points which the rapporteurs , moreover , seem to share . 
Firstly , the necessary visibility of the charter as a point of reference for the citizens . 
This necessitates clear and concise drafting within a single , comprehensible text . 
Secondly , the binding force of this charter , which is achieved when it is possible to defend the recognised rights in the law court . 
The natural outcome of this determination is the inclusion of the future charter among the Treaties . 
In conclusion , let me say that it is necessary to make a qualitative leap in the protection of fundamental rights . 
This report must be a unanimous message from Parliament to ensure that the Council and the Convention respond to the expectations of petitioners . 
Madam President , no doubt the Council would like to hear the opinion of the political Groups , which seems to me to be very healthy . 
Madam President , we are holding this debate at exactly the right time . 
The convention which is drafting the Charter on Fundamental Rights has begun its work and I believe that we are already doing so at cruise speed . 
We are dealing with the content involving civil and political rights , and then we will deal with citizenship rights and economic and social rights . 
It is therefore important for this Parliament to establish a mandate for the members of the delegation representing it and also to establish - and this seems to me to be essential - which political objectives this Parliament will pursue by means of this Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
The representative of the Committee on Petitions is right to point out that the citizens often ask us what this Charter of Fundamental Rights is for . 
Fundamental rights are recognised in our constitutions . 
The Member States of the European Union respect fundamental rights . 
There is a Rome Convention , upheld by the Court in Strasbourg , which is the ultimate guarantee in the event of a violation . 
So what is this Charter for ? 
I believe that Parliament should send a very clear message : the Charter of Fundamental Rights is a supplement to these rights guaranteed in the constitutions . 
Being European has an added positive effect . 
By means of this Charter we intend to bind the European institutions to a bill of fundamental rights and to bind the Member States to those same rights in their transposition and application of Community law . 
This is the political message which we must send . 
Being European is a positive thing . It adds to what we already have as national citizens . 
The report which we are debating today and voting on tomorrow also seems to explain very clearly what the political objectives of this Parliament are . 
We do not wish the Charter to be a mere declaration . 
We do not believe that a declaration is sufficient . 
We want the Charter to be incorporated into the Treaties precisely because we want the citizens to have more rights and guarantees . 
Whether or not the Charter is incorporated into the Treaty clearly depends on the work which the convention is able to carry out . 
It will depend on whether the work is useful and can be incorporated into the Treaties . 
However , it seems to me essential that Parliament bears this objective in mind with regard to the drawing up of the Charter . 
It is also important to state , as this report does , that absolutely no harm will be done to the protection of fundamental rights as laid down in existing provisions . 
There will be no double use of the Convention of Strasbourg . We should make this very clear . 
I repeat that what we want is to provide the European citizens with a supplementary guarantee when it comes to the application of Community law . 
I believe that , by affirming the indivisibility of fundamental rights , as this resolution does , or affirming their innovative nature , we are taking positive steps towards an improvement in the living conditions of the European citizens . 
Madam President , I would like to end by whole - heartedly congratulating both the rapporteurs and the draftsmen of opinions . 
It is a matter of form in this Parliament to congratulate them , but I would like to do so from a political point of view and on behalf of my Group , because I believe that Messrs Duff and Voggenhuber , and all the draftsmen of opinions , have been able to provide the political response required by Parliament at the moment . 
I therefore hope , Madam President , that tomorrow ' s vote will support the rapporteurs ' good work with a massive vote in favour of this report . 
Madam President , Representative of the Council , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I believe that the exercise we are involved in today comes just in time and , every day , current events remind us how urgent this European Union charter is . 
This is the background against which we are working . 
A European Union charter : this clearly means that the charter is addressed to each and every one of our fellow citizens , admittedly , but also to persons resident in or visiting the Union . 
That is important to note . 
It is important at a time when the European Union is experiencing upheaval at its very centre . It is important , too , and we would like to see this mentioned in the text that we are to vote upon tomorrow , at a time when we are involved in enlarging the Union to include countries for which the respect of fundamental rights is a significant question . 
It is important , finally , at a time when we consider - and we should like to specify this in the text that we shall be voting upon tomorrow - that the Union has passed the stage of economic integration and has clearly undertaken a process of political and social integration . 
The charter must contribute to this . 
The resolution on which we shall be voting tomorrow is certainly not intended to give a binding mandate to our fellow Members , myself included , in the context of the convention , since we have already commenced work . 
It is intended , rather , to say what Parliament expects of the convention . 
To this end , I should like to stress two points . 
In the first place , what do we expect to obtain from this exercise ? 
Frankly , ladies and gentlemen , if the objective were to assemble a convention , original in form and composition , as we have today , in order merely to come up with an announcement of a text bearing the signatures of the presidents of the three institutions , then I think we would be on the wrong track . 
We want more than this . 
It is in this spirit that we are working within the convention , both in terms of the timetable and the form . 
My second point is to do with its content . 
Our resolution does not say much with regard to content , but Parliament has already had , on at least three occasions , the opportunity to state what it expected from a charter on fundamental rights . 
This was not the purpose of today ' s discussion , but it is worth highlighting three points . Firstly , if we have put together such a unique body only to codify the existing law to the letter , then I believe it was not worth planning this new body . 
Secondly , if the convention must confine itself to regurgitating all or part of the European Convention on Human Rights in order to void the question of whether or not the Union should adhere to it of all meaning , then I believe once again that we would be on the wrong track . 
Thirdly , it seems to me that , with regard to the content , we have here the opportunity to restate , at Union level , a number of commitments that each Member State endorses , but which we must confirm on behalf of the European Union as such , recognising a number of rights , particularly in the economic and social sector . 
Let me state here the extent of the difficulty of the mandate given us at Cologne , acknowledging social rights which would be nothing more than goals . 
But , these specifically are the issues involved in the work which will be carried out within the convention and , on behalf of my Group , I wish to state the importance we shall accord the charter ' s content in terms of such questions . 
In this spirit , I fully support the proposal which Ieke van den Burg has just made : if the Union is questioning its adherence to the European Convention on Human Rights , then it must also question its adherence to the European Social Charter . 
Finally , I think that the European Parliament will be on the right track for the charter to be ready , in terms of both content and timetable , to be integrated during the French Presidency . 
It would enable fundamental rights to be recognised in due form , and given the place they deserve in our internal legal system , a system which today is observed with a great deal of attention by citizens within the European Union , certainly , but also by the countries who wish to join the Union . 
Madam President , the need for a binding charter is more a political than a legal issue , but this does not detract from its significance . 
Fundamental rights are of secondary importance in treaties these days . 
If they are included at all , this is done so in a completely chaotic format . 
This is unacceptable , certainly if Europe professes to be a Community of values . 
Therefore the charter must guarantee the citizen protection against the breaches of increasingly widening supra - national legislation . 
The ECHR should apply as a minimum standard with specific European Union rights added to it . 
Needless to say , we need to do everything possible to leave national constitutions intact as much as possible but it cannot be ruled out that it will affect these constitutions . 
After all , the charter must be able to form the basis for new fundamental rights if so necessitated by social developments . 
Finally , Madam President , it is essential for the European Union to accede to the European Convention on Human Rights , for Strasbourg must become stronger , not weaker . 
Ladies and gentlemen , the Charter of Fundamental Rights must be an essential stage in the construction of Europe . 
We must provide ourselves with the means to make it the founding element of European identity , allowing Europe to make the qualitative leap it needs in order to feel that it really does exist . 
In this context , I should like to join my fellow Members in pointing out the need to ensure that this charter is of a binding nature , for the citizens would find it hard to understand the European Union working on defining fundamental rights if it was not then possible to guarantee them in law . 
Fundamental rights , and let me stress this word , fundamental rights can be no less than mandatory . If they are not , then the whole construction of Europe would lose its fundamental nature in the opinion of many people . 
The future charter must be included among the Treaties and this must be achieved on the occasion of the next IGC , probably the last with the current fifteen countries . 
France , the self - proclaimed home of human rights , must absolutely take advantage of its presidency during the second half of 2000 in order to table this amendment of the Treaties . 
This is a formal request which we are making to the French Government . 
There are , however , two points that I would like to mention here . 
Firstly , I should like to stress the need for the charter to develop the concept of European citizenship due to residence . 
More than ever , it is essential to avoid the coexistence in Europe of distinct classes of people enjoying distinct rights . 
For example , how acceptable is it that an Algerian who has worked and paid taxes in France for thirty years may not vote in local elections whilst a European resident for six months in another European country can take part ? 
This charter must make every effort to develop our definition of European citizenship based on the idea of residence . 
The rights that we are defining , if they are to be fundamental , must be applicable to everyone . 
Secondly , I should like to stress the urgent need to include effective protection for personal data held on computer within the scope of the charter . 
Last month , the European Parliament in fact adopted an amendment asking for a Committee on Information Technology and European Liberties to be set up . 
Well , this cannot truly exist unless it is based on a solid legal standard . 
The charter must therefore ensure that it defines the limits of the content of files , the means permitted for data retrieval , and access methods . 
Moreover , at a time when certain communication systems , certain spying systems , are prohibited , we must guarantee citizens ' rights with regard to the new European bodies which are being developed , and guarantee the rights of the citizen by means of parliamentary monitoring , but also consumer rights with regard to the new Internet marketing techniques . 
This is a major issue for the guaranteeing of fundamental freedoms in the twenty - first century . 
Madam President , my speech is going to be rather different to that of the previous speakers , since I should like to demonstrate that the Charter of the Fundamental Rights of the Citizens of the European Union , as outlined in the European Parliament report by Duff and Voggenhuber , would in fact be a charter that restricted fundamental rights even more . 
This report in fact proposes including the citizens ' rights which have until now been determined at national level in a standard , detailed and binding European charter , whose application would be monitored and hence interpreted by the European Court of Justice . 
I should point out , before going on , that I am not sure that all the other participants representing the Heads of State or Government and the national parliaments within the body established by the Cologne Council to prepare a preliminary draft charter are in fact in agreement with this position of the European Parliament . 
So , for the time being , what I am about to say applies only to the Duff / Voggenhuber report . 
Obviously , as far as those who promote the charter are concerned , defending fundamental rights which are already adequately protected in Europe at present , whatever they may say , is nothing but a pretext to conceal another , purely ideological , objective , which is to establish the beginnings of a European constitution , the crowning achievement of a superstate , even though the majority of the peoples of Europe do not want either of these . 
And how right they are , for this detailed , mandatory charter , which would give standardised definitions of citizens ' rights for the whole of Europe , would impose a rigid legal framework enclosing each nation in regulations which were not entirely its own . 
There are three reasons for our claiming that the charter , as envisaged , would curtail the rights of citizens . 
Firstly , on the pretext of defending citizens better , it would distance them from the place where their rights are defined . 
It would weaken the control that they currently have over it . 
It would end in a situation where a nation could no longer amend the rights of its own citizens without obtaining the agreement of fourteen other nations , a suffocating formula , ill - suited to the nature and the interests of Europe , as I explained in the minority opinion appended to the report . 
Next , the charter would provide a new pretext for the frenzied standardisation of citizens ' rights in Europe . 
Indeed I am astounded that governments are prepared to allow this to happen . 
Have they not learnt the lessons of the past ? Do they really wish , taking the example of the French Government , to have to face twenty problems such as the case of the hunters all at the same time ? 
Finally , this charter would tend to circumvent the rights of communities , primarily the national community , which are rights that are extremely dear to the citizens , since it is within this circle that the most realistic and most legitimate democracy is expressed . 
Here we are at the heart of what we have called the process of reducing rights . 
This process would , moreover , go much farther than one might think , for a whole series of beggars and minorities have started to come out of the woodwork , clearly understanding that if the charter is standardised and binding , as well as adopted under the dubious conditions of so - called European democracy , it may in years to come represent the weak link in the chain of democracy . 
The Union for a Europe of Nations Group therefore considers that the charter , if it must exist , should be extremely brief and should present only the essential values , the fundamental principles of the countries of Europe , in the form of a political declaration . 
It is perfectly feasible to imagine , as of the end of the year , candidate countries signing up to this charter in order to demonstrate their inclusion in the circle of European values . 
If so , adhesion to the charter could be shared by both existing members and future members . 
One thing is certain , Madam President , at all costs we must avoid foisting a standardised and binding text on the nations of Europe , lest we create the post - national society which Mr Duff has just been hoping and praying for . This would be perceived as an attack on national democracies ' freedom of choice . 
Every country must continue to be able to choose its regulations freely in accordance with its own culture and development . 
We would like the Intergovernmental Conference , which is just starting , to keep the essential principle of respect for national democracies continually in mind . 
Madam President , on behalf of the Lega Nord , for which I am a representative to this House , I would like to express my delight at the fact that the European Charter of Fundamental Rights is , at last , being drawn up . 
I like to remember that , right here , in France , a couple of centuries ago , the first moves were made to define these rights , and only in North America , during the same period , were these rights actually given expression , apart from in the works of philosophers and academics , in legal documents such as the State Constitutions . 
Now then , the European Union does , in effect , seem to be a little behind , but we can make up time by using this vessel . 
I am referring to it as a vessel because it is obviously still only a framework . We do not , as yet , know what we will put inside it . 
The report does , of course , contain some of the main points , but we will have to decide upon the definitive text later on . 
This Charter is important because , although we do have other conventions and treaties , human rights are always under threat , even within the Union . 
For example , I am thinking of the attempt to eliminate or cut down on the appeal procedures in lawsuits in Italy . I am thinking of the right to free elections which loses its meaning when , for example , the citizens of a country of the Union vote in a certain way , and vote freely , and then see their country penalised as a result of the outcome of the elections . 
The right of citizens to vote for whomsoever they choose should be respected indiscriminately for all people at all times , without sabotaging the governments and countries which emerge as a result of these elections . 
Then there is not just the question of citizens ' rights : the rights of communities need to be better defined , as do the rights of peoples , those peoples which are under threat , on the one hand , from globalisation , which wants to standardise everything , and , on the other hand , from a return to a single , centralist , oppressive nation - state . 
In our opinion , however , we should be moving towards a Europe of peoples , peoples whose identity is not necessarily defined according to the present form of the Member States . 
In particular , certain rules of some of the penal codes should be altered , such as article 141 of the Italian Penal Code , which goes so far as to punish acts of secession with life imprisonment . 
I am not necessarily advocating secession , but I am claiming the right for anyone who might want to do so to be able to take action , in a peaceful and non - violent manner , of course , to uphold and apply this right which is sanctioned by the UN Charter , sanctioned by the Helsinki Final Act and , I hope , despite certain penal rules , will also be sanctioned by the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
Madam President , as the low turnout during the most recent elections has shown ,  " Europe " as a concept does not mean a great deal to its citizens . 
We cannot change this by giving citizens a Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
Citizens need to see that the European institutions are actually acting in their interests and are not just out to increasing their own power . 
If this happens , confidence among people will grow more than could ever be achieved by many a fine declaration or charter . 
We do not share the presumption that a comprehensive charter can be drafted which comprises all current fundamental rights . 
Such a document cannot be drafted , not now or in future , and this ambition is certainly not a task of the European Union . 
What we should aim for within the Union is cooperation based on respect for the separate identities of peoples and states . 
Fundamental rights must be secured where they can be protected as effectively as possible and where they can be embedded in the social fabric , that is to say within the Member States . 
It is also vital that the ECHR ' s external supervisory role in the protection of fundamental rights remains intact . Equally , the authority of the Court in Strasbourg over this whole procedure should remain unaffected . 
A legally binding charter will inevitably affect fundamental rights provisions in Member States and will undermine the role and the authority of the ECHR and the Court in Strasbourg . 
If a charter were to be drafted nonetheless , we would strongly urge that this only apply to the institutions of the Union . 
It should only include articles which can give a meaningful message to these European institutions . 
Vague instruction standards or rights in policy areas , where the Union has no authority , must be omitted . 
Finally , fundamental rights are based on human dignity . 
The true value of human life , however , will never be fully understood if we lose sight of God , the Creator of all things , including man . 
Mr President , dismayed as I am by the fact that 14 Member States have prejudged Austria , I regard the proposed Charter of Fundamental Rights as an opportunity to bring the European Union closer to the people . 
I therefore welcome it . 
In drawing up this Charter , the Union wishes to demonstrate its respect for the rights of the people and to show that it cares about the welfare of the individual . 
At the same time , however , the impression has been created in the public arena that the European Union does not even respect the fundamental right - as it were - of an individual State to form a government with sovereign power . 
Likewise , the impression has been created that 14 Member States have failed to play by the rules they themselves adopted , and have violated their obligations towards solidarity . 
I would ask you this : how is a Union of the Member States that adopts sanctions out of prejudice , without giving the parties concerned a fair hearing and with no legal basis , to satisfy people that it intends to do more than just pay lip - service to fundamental rights ? 
The decision taken by the 14 has done great damage to the perception that the citizens of the European Union have of Europe . 
And I believe it is very doubtful indeed as to whether this damage can be made good by a Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
Mr President , for years now , the European Parliament and our group have been asking for a proper description of fundamental rights of the European citizens in the European treaties . 
The request was made at the time of the Treaty of Maastricht and the Treaty of Amsterdam . 
In this connection , I would also remind you of the report which I had the privilege of writing in conjunction with Mrs Dury in preparation for the Treaty of Amsterdam . 
This question was raised in that document too . 
In fact , it was in this document that we achieved our first successes , for our anti - discrimination clause was used in the Treaty of Amsterdam virtually verbatim . 
Later on , at the Cologne Summit , Parliament ' s wider request was also honoured . 
A meeting was proposed for the purpose of producing a Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European citizen . 
The question which concerns us today , more than anything is : what should this charter contain and what legal force should it have ? 
As far as the latter is concerned , I would like to express my unequivocal support in favour of including a charter in the treaties and in favour of a charter which can be enforced on behalf of citizens upon the European courts . 
We should not produce empty shells ; our citizens would see through them straight away anyway . 
As far as the content is concerned , the charter must tie in with the existing conventions , such as the Council of Europe ' s European Convention for the protection of human rights . 
In fact , in my opinion , the Union should sign up to that Convention without delay . 
The charter should at least deal with the citizens ' fundamental rights , the political rights , the social rights and , in my opinion , the rights of minorities too , and it should form a supplement to what we already have . 
It should not duplicate what is already there . 
New threats , in particular , will need to be anticipated , such as in the field of information and biotechnology , and in the protection of the environment , of which man forms part . 
Mr President , the rights of minorities appear to constitute one of the most difficult areas in the charter and because this has been and will be one of Europe ' s key problems , I would argue in favour of including fundamental rights of minorities in the charter . 
I will probably submit a text on this matter myself . 
But the most important fact , Mr President , is that the charter will be given legal force , that it will be included in the Treaty and that our citizens will be reassured that the European Union will take its fundamental rights seriously too , and will want to defend them up to the highest level . 
Mr President , I would just like to say a few words on the question of the incorporation of the Charter into the Treaties . 
The European Parliament declared itself fully in favour of this move , convinced that this is the way to guarantee the legal status of the Charter and to consolidate the protection of rights at a legal level as well , awarding jurisdiction to the Court of Justice of the European Union . 
The governments , and , on their behalf , the Council of Cologne , left the question open . 
They left a question mark over whether and how to incorporate the Charter into the Treaties . 
We feel that the Intergovernmental Conference is our opportunity to resolve this question , and this opportunity must not be passed up . 
There are , so to speak , two parallel operations . 
It is the responsibility of the Convention to prepare the draft Charter in time for the Intergovernmental Conference to be able to decide whether to incorporate it into the Treaties . 
In this regard , I would like to warn the representative of the Council , the Portuguese Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs , that the Intergovernmental Conference should already be starting to prepare for this eventuality . 
If the Charter is ready in time , the Intergovernmental Conference will have to define the procedures for its incorporation into the Treaty . 
As we are all aware , from the European Parliament ' s perspective , this should represent a step towards the constitutionalisation of the Union . 
I am quite aware that the term ' constitutionalisation ' has come to be viewed with some suspicion recently , and that people are afraid to use it , or at least , prefer to avoid using it . 
From time to time I find myself in difficulties , because the parliamentary committee of which I am Chairman has changed its name from the ' Committee on Institutional Affairs ' to the ' Committee on Constitutional Affairs '  . 
And yet I feel that this is the right way for us to go and that it does not in any way mean promoting that concept we all fear of a European superstate . 
Nothing can undermine the value of the national constitutions , in the same way that , according to the Treaties , European citizenship does not replace national citizenship , but incorporates it . 
The governments did something very courageous when they gave the go - ahead for the preparation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in Cologne , and now they should not have any regrets . They should not turn back , but should exploit their decision to the full . 
Ladies and gentlemen , human rights are a constitutional issue . 
The incorporation of the Charter of Rights into the Treaties is the logical result of the decision taken in Cologne , which was taken for the benefit of the citizens , that they might have a part in the construction of Europe and fully identify with the plans for the Union , its principles , its values and its institutions . 
Mr President , I should like to express my substantial agreement with the point just made by Mr Napolitano . 
It is , when you think of it , odd to suppose that great institutions of this kind could be thought capable of existing without some constitution . 
Manifestly we do exist and therefore manifestly we already have some kind of a constitution . 
The question is : do we have an adequate constitution and what kind of constitution do we want ? 
To say we need a constitution is not to say that the European Union should have the constitution of a state , for the Union is not a state and is not about to become one . 
We all therefore agree that there should be proper recognition of rights within the Union and that this should be binding on the organs and institutions of the Union . 
The EU organs and institutions can exercise far too much power to permit them that power without the proper control which a Charter of Rights would imply . 
There is however one risk . 
One of the great success stories of Europe is the way in which the European Court of Justice , especially when other institutions were blocked , succeeded in building the concept of Europe as a Community under the law . 
If we create a Charter of Rights that overloads the Court of Justice , that has everybody beating a path every week to Luxembourg , we will destroy the purpose . 
We must ensure that the main avenue for protecting rights is in the national courts and in a supervisory jurisdiction as exercised at European level . 
If we do not succeed in that , we will fail in everything . 
The conventions are , of course , concerned with the relationship between States and citizens and , since the EU is not a State , the fact that the EU increasingly behaves like , and is acquiring the powers of , a State is a problem . 
In that way , a loophole has appeared in connection with fundamental rights , and this loophole should , of course , be closed . 
In our eagerness to make things right , we are , however , in danger of doing a lot of damage . 
The EU is faced with a number of choices . Are we to secure our own rights ? 
Are we exclusively to look after ourselves and our own ? Or are we to reinforce human rights throughout Europe ? 
The EU must not start competing with the existing authorities for resolving disputes , such as the Court of Human Rights here in Strasbourg . 
That would , of course , weaken the latter and damage the situation regarding human rights throughout Europe . 
In my view , the EU ' s Court of Justice should therefore be kept away from the project concerning fundamental rights . 
Instead , the EU ought to take Strasbourg ' s judgements seriously and demand that present and future Member States ratify the European Convention on Human Rights , the ILO conventions and the essential UN conventions , as well as having economic and tariff agreements depend upon the parties adhering to these conventions . 
In that way , the EU would reinforce the existing conventions , and that is something there is a need for . 
I would like to join with my colleagues in congratulating the two rapporteurs despite the fact that I do not agree with everything that they have set down and suggested . 
At the same time , they have been given an impossible task to try and square a circle that cannot be squared . 
In the brief time that I have , I would like to concentrate on one specific point which the previous speaker has mentioned , as indeed have other speakers . 
That is the potential conflict which could arise between this Charter and the European Convention on Human Rights . 
Let us not forget that each Member State has ratified the European Convention on Human Rights , has incorporated it into its own national law and is bound by the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg . 
Over the last 50 years , the European Convention , with the decisions of the Court , has grown and evolved to accommodate new rights , new entitlements and new freedoms that have developed with society . 
Also , in case Members do not know it , under a strict legal interpretation any EU legislation supersedes any constitutional provision or any other national legislative provision in any one of the Member States . 
Therefore , if this Charter were to be incorporated into the Treaties , it would supersede the European Convention on Human Rights , it would supersede any national constitutional provisions and would also supersede any national legislative provisions . 
Therefore , whilst it is important that each of us must stand up for the inalienable freedoms and rights enjoyed by each individual citizen , as well as by groups of citizens , I think there is a better way to deal with this problem than through a Charter , namely through the incorporation of the Convention into European Union law and its enforcement at national Member State level . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , with this proposed charter and some other reports which this House will be debating tomorrow morning , we have now entered a new period of European construction , the ' Dadaist ' period of European construction , which scorns reality and perpetually seeks moral justification for itself . The fact is , you refute the transcendental and the sublime because you confuse moralism with morality - indeed , Goethe , as you know , said that moralism was the opposite of morality - and legalism with law . 
Please understand that we are not challenging the existence of human rights . We are saying that they should be taken into consideration among other rights , and that it is all of these rights which must contribute to the general interest , for it is general interest that is the primordial rule of political action , not the zeitgeist , the showbiz society , the mediagoguery , or weakness raised up as a system . 
Indeed , human rights are no more than an object , a pretext , which the speakers here - like the pseudo - artist Duchamp - generally make a mockery of . 
It is a pretext , when the very title of the proposed charter speaks of the fundamental rights ' of ' the European Union instead of fundamental rights ' within ' the European Union . 
What you are trying to create is a precursor for a constitution that is impossible to find because in fact you have reached a dead end and you know perfectly well that the construction of Europe has turned into an unbelievable preachifying mass of texts and declarations . 
Forgetting the people , social democrats hide , shamefaced , behind human rights and furtive liberals turn into social democrats . 
But the people take note of these recantations and will , one day , reject them , or indeed the Western world will come to an end . 
Mr President , the question we have heard several times in the course of this debate is this : what exactly is the point of this Charter of Human Rights , when there is already one , and even several universal conventions on human rights and a European Convention on Human Rights , and human rights are included in the constitutions of all the Member States , those of the candidate countries and , generally , in the constitutions of all countries , even those who do not respect human rights ? 
It certainly is not useful , as has been claimed previously , in terms of improving or strengthening human rights within the construction of Europe . 
No , and we should pay tribute to Mrs Berès for having just now clearly given direction to a debate which marks a key turning point in the history of the construction of Europe , the transition from an economic and commercial Europe to a political and institutional Europe . 
Of course , the Charter of Human Rights is the first step in this direction , but , as with everything which characterises the construction of Europe , the approach is indirect , concealed , tortuous and , I might even say ,  ' Jesuitical '  . 
The question of a constitution and its contents is not asked , but instead the question of a charter of human rights which is obviously the precursor for a constitution , it being understood that the precursor will eventually give rise to a constitution proper and then , possible , to a State . 
The interesting thing about this approach - and here again I must pay tribute to Mrs Berès for her clear - sightedness and honesty , even if , as she knows , I totally disagree with her conclusions - is that it tends to determine what will be the principles of the European communities , or of the community of human beings living within the European Union . 
When Mrs Berès speaks of the rights being applied not only to citizens but also to visiting and resident aliens , she is tackling a matter which , I feel , is probably going to be developed in the texts already submitted and to be submitted in future to this House , to wit , what will be the basis of the rights which will govern the European Union ? 
Is it to be citizenship in the way that we traditionally understand it , with rights which characterise in a specific way the people belonging to a given community ? 
Or is it to be rights extended to parties other than citizens proper , with a shift , or at least the start of a shift , from democracy based on citizenship towards democracy based on the equal treatment of individuals resident , whether long - term residents or visitors , on European Union territories . 
I feel that this is a problem which as yet we can only see the premises of , but , in my view , it is absolutely essential to see the premises in order to be able subsequently to follow the thread . 
Mr President , while I congratulate the rapporteurs on their work I fear that , as the road to hell is paved with good intentions , so it is with this Charter . 
The nations of Europe can be proud of their record on human rights ; however , have they needed charters ? 
Britain led the world in the battle to abolish slavery , but the only Charter - actually so called - which we have ever had in Britain was signed at Runnymede by King John in 1215 . 
Of course , there are exceptions , exceptions so serious that Europe has a responsibility to do what it can to ensure that the inhumanities and atrocities of the past are never repeated . 
But does this Charter add to what we already have ? 
Does it add to or replace the Convention on Human Rights to which all EU Member States and applicant states are signatories , or does it just add another judicial forum , leaving lawyers with the happy and profitable choice between the European Court and the Court of Human Rights ? 
Why not a simple declaration of human rights under Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty without the need for a charter for litigation ? 
Can fundamental rights properly be protected by a court which is already overstretched and frequently arrives at its judgments long after the events which it is judging ? 
Does this Charter simply aim to be an expensive distributor of compensation in the dreadful fullness of time ? 
Ensuring fundamental human rights is the best of intentions , but a charter for litigation and bureaucracy is surely another road to another hell . 
Mr President , why do we need such a Charter ? 
It clearly is not , as Mr Berthu has said , in order to create a European super - state but more , as Mrs Berès has said , to make it clear to today ' s citizens and tomorrow ' s citizens that what we are in now is a Community of values : values based on democracy , freedom , equality , solidarity and respect for diversity , values - and I stress this to Mrs Garaud - that unite Europeans across frontiers , from the north , the south , the east and the west of the Community . 
The big question is not whether we need such a Charter but what status it should have . 
Some have argued that the Charter should simply gather together in a readable form all the rights that currently exist within the European Union . 
This would be a valuable exercise : there is clearly a problem of awareness of people ' s rights . 
Many citizens do not know the rights that exist today . 
A document clearly laying out such rights , and making it clear where and how these rights could be exercised , would be valuable . 
But if that was all we were doing in the Convention then we should have left it to a team of academics , who frankly could have done it better than a group of 60 politicians . 
I believe we have a team of 60 politicians working on the Convention because it is our duty to identify gaps in existing rights , to identify weaknesses in existing structures and to show the political will to correct those weaknesses . 
So the Charter must fill in any gaps in existing rights , and it must be binding on the institutions of the European Union . 
However , it is clear that not all rights will be equal , at least in the way they are implemented . 
The rights need to be in two categories . 
There needs to be a list of rights which will be directly upheld by the courts , but there also needs to be another list of general rights which the Community institutions and others will have to take into account when drafting policies ; some in the Court , some simply as background forming a valuable basis when we are taking other decisions . 
What is clear , and what unites most people in this Chamber who want such a Charter , is that it must be in the Treaties . 
If it is to impact on the citizen it must appear in the Treaties of the European Union . 
Mr President , I would particularly like to thank the rapporteurs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for having adopted a position in favour of the EU becoming a party to the Council of Europe ' s Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms . 
I hope that this position will be retained in tomorrow ' s sitting , as it will be vitally important if we wish to avoid confusion with the many various schemes in respect of fundamental rights . 
I would like to raise the issue of reinforcing the political rights of citizens with the help of the Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
In my view , there has not to date been so much discussion on the subject . 
If , however , we were to examine what a citizen of the European Union today can actually do , how much he or she can influence the decision - making process , we would see that there are not so many opportunities to do so . 
Citizens can mainly stand as candidates in elections and vote in another EU country . 
But why should we not establish some new institutions and instruments , by means of this Charter , enabling citizens to have a real influence ? 
Why , for example , could we not take up the notion that a certain number of citizens - let us say from three different EU countries - could formulate a citizens ' initiative that then could be channelled though the European Parliament ? 
Why can we not look to the future and see that it will be ever more important for our citizens to be able to take part directly in decision - making in other ways too ? 
I think it would be natural for this to form part of the Charter and very little has been said about this so far . 
During this past century , Europe has experienced two terrible wars , immeasurable tragedies , but , at the same time , it has witnessed unrestrainable civil , cultural and social progress . 
The working masses fought , and achieved and consolidated positive results which protected their rights , and which , at the same time , played a decisive role in the development of democracy . 
It is a bitter surprise to find that there is no specific , explicit reference in this document to those social rights which are , in actual fact , the most important part of the immense democratic process which became established in Europe during the course of the century . 
I am referring to essential rights , without which democracy is not true democracy : freedom of thought , freedom of speech , freedom of the press and of association and so on are the basic framework of democracy , but within that framework and from that framework must emerge a healthy , solid structure which is a perfect combination of freedom and justice . 
First and foremost , a document such as this cannot fail to include a specific , indisputable reference to the right to work . 
It cannot and must not be without this reference . 
Yes , social rights are mentioned , but they should be clearly and practically defined : the right to work , the right to health , the right to education , the right to housing , to a pension , the right , that is , to life , to a life where all have equal opportunities , according to those principles of liberté [ freedom ] and égalité [ equality ] which have played such a major part in our extensive history . 
For this reason , therefore , I ask Parliament to approve the small number of explicit amendments tabled by Mr Kaufmann and myself on this subject . 
 -  ( PT ) Mr President , Mr President - in - Office , Commissioner , the only really fundamental thing about the idea of a Charter of Fundamental Rights for the Union is an attempt , under the guise of appearing to be generous , to take a step towards the so - called constitutionalisation of the Treaties , or even more directly , towards a European constitution for a European State . 
For this reason , we are against it . 
We are not questioning the content of such a charter . 
We come from a country whose constitution contains one of the most extensive enumerations of fundamental rights anywhere . 
We also belong to a party that was forged in the struggle for democracy , and one of whose greatest concerns has always been the steadfast promotion of human rights . 
We oppose the charter , however , because in the idea behind it , we detect a kind of Trojan horse for federalism , a political trap which would entail other serious political and legal consequences for the Member States and peoples of Europe . 
We do not think that it would be correct , and certainly not appropriate , to impair and disturb the balance of the Treaties at present . 
On the contrary , the times and challenges we are currently facing mean that it is more important than ever to promote the Treaties and follow the precise , secure routes mapped out by the founding fathers which have brought us this far . 
There is a very simple reason why the European Union does not need a Charter of Fundamental Rights : it does not have a fundamental rights problem . 
The Europe to which we belong is even , to a certain extent , the cradle of the culture of fundamental rights . 
As there is no problem , the charter is not a solution and as the charter will solve nothing , it is therefore a problem in itself . 
Firstly , because it would divide us in a cause in which we should be united . Secondly , because it would give rise to an overlapping and potentially disruptive conflict with the protection afforded by the European Convention on Human Rights , under the tried and tested institutional framework of the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights . 
This is not a plus , but a minus . 
The appropriate setting in which to enshrine fundamental rights is the constitutional law of each nation state . 
The appropriate setting for achieving international legal harmonisation and solid advances in the international protection of human rights is the agreements and conventions ratified by the Member States in as wide a geographical area as possible . 
In other words , the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and , in Europe , the European Convention . 
We need to work within these extensive international frameworks if we are really to make the protection of rights already recognised by Member States more effective internationally , instead of following a route that will restrict us because it runs counter to the main feature of the culture of fundamental rights : its universality . 
If the EU really does want to take symbolic steps in this field , it needs to go down a different path . That would involve including all human rights agreements and conventions already ratified by the 15 Member States in the list of international texts referred to in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union . 
This would ensure that they were clearly incorporated into the acquis communautaire . 
That would be a real step forward . This charter is the wrong answer to a problem that does not even exist and is therefore an additional problem which we feel we can do without . 
Mr President ,  " the creation of an ever closer Union among the peoples of Europe and the maintenance and development of the Union as an area of freedom , security and justice are based on general and absolute respect for human dignity , which is unique to each person , yet common to all , and inviolable . " 
So reads Item B in the motion for a resolution we have before us . 
I consider it to be great progress that the European Parliament has specified and established a view of human beings which is deeply rooted in Europe ' s history , culture , popular movements and spiritual traditions . 
I am therefore pleased that my amendment concerning human dignity - unique to each person , yet common to all and inviolable - obtained support in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs , for we must establish a common view of human beings as the effective basis for the EU ' s urgent , global fight against the death penalty , its struggle on the side of life and also its fight against torture , against the sex trade and against sexual exploitation . 
In our capacity as citizens , we have freedoms and rights , but we also have responsibilities . 
I therefore welcome the fact that responsibilities have been incorporated in accordance with my wording in Item E . 
I would also remind you of Amendments Nos 24 and 25 which the Group of the European People ' s Party and European Democrats have submitted and which will be voted on tomorrow . 
By way of conclusion , I want to discuss the fact that , in November 1999 , the Committee on Women ' s Rights and Equal Opportunities in the European Parliament made a statement to the effect that the family does not have any special rights but only individual rights . 
This statement totally conflicts with the UN ' s and the Council of Europe ' s fundamental human rights charters concerning the rights of the family . 
Mr President , it is not often that one has cause to simply feel glad about something in the all too ponderous run of things in the European Parliament . 
However , the report by Duff and Voggenhuber has given us cause for this today . 
I would particularly like to take this opportunity to highlight how doggedly they have pursued their goal . 
All too often one has the feeling in this House , that notwithstanding all verbal declarations , the superior might and advantages enjoyed by the Council and the Commission prevail , and all too often , this is where the interests of national parties and governments win through as well . 
Duff and Voggenhuber , on the other hand , think of themselves as true European Parliamentarians whose task it is to further the interests of Europe as a whole . 
And so tomorrow , we will be able to adopt a report , which is based on the premise that naturally the European Parliament , and not the national governments , would be responsible for instituting the fundamental rights of the European Union . 
This Charter will only meet the needs of the citizens of Europe under two provisos . Firstly , it must be given substance , and secondly , it must be made binding in law . 
However , it is stunningly disappointing to note how the Convention , which has been specifically set up for this purpose , is high on competences but very low in courage . 
And so really , this report could also be viewed as an appeal to the Convention that goes like this :  ' Dare to do something at long last ! 
Dare to include innovations in the Charter , particularly those in the sphere of information and biotechnology , but also where equal rights for women and environmental protection are concerned . 
Dare to do more than just spend time in the glass palace of Parliament talking about the people of Europe - get out there and involve them ! And dare to adopt the standards on international labour law set by the International Labour Organisation . ' 
The Charter is precisely the instrument we need to give Europe a soul , and it could help create a common identity . 
Why is it that EU governments are so quick off the mark when it comes to pushing through economic reforms but so hesitant when it comes to political rights ? 
Do you not realise that Europe as we know it will fall apart if we put all our efforts into bringing on the economy and do not do anything to promote political fundamental rights ? 
Conscious of my position as an Austrian , I would therefore like to make the following appeal to the national governments :  ' wake up , it is in your own interests to give fundamental rights a chance ! 
With this in mind , I hope the report in question achieves an overwhelming majority in plenary tomorrow . 
I should like to say that a Charter of Fundamental Rights is both welcome and essential , provided it does not fall into the following three traps . 
The first trap is that it may just become just another public relations exercise - and we have seen many of them from the European Union , in employment for instance - which has no legal basis , which is not binding and which will therefore not allow citizens to enforce their rights through the courts . 
The second danger is that it may give the European Union an excuse to continue not being legally bound by basic decisions or regulations of international bodies , such as the European Convention on Human Rights or the various decisions of the International Labour Organisation . 
The third danger is that it may become a general Charter containing a loose set of average values , a mechanism for subverting the advanced human rights which have been acquired in various countries . 
For example , if a particular country has the right to free education , then any general reference to the right to education in a European Union Charter could be the first step towards subverting that right . 
Provided the Charter deals with these three traps , provided it addresses social rights in a serious manner , provided it is open to the new issues raised by the Internet , new technologies , etc . , and provided it applies to all persons living in Europe , then it may represent a positive contribution . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , fundamental rights , citizens , freedom and human rights have a long tradition in Europe . 
Fundamental rights of the modern age have their origins in the Magna Carta Libertatum of 1215 , the Petition of Rights of 1628 , the Habeas Corpus Act of 1679 , the Bill of Rights of 1689 and , lastly , the Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen during the French Revolution . 
The fact that fundamental rights have come to be guaranteed under constitutional law over the past 200 years is largely down to the impact these universal documents of fundamental rights have had . 
It is now the task of twenty - first century Europe to combine the existing fundamental rights in the Member States and those aspects that apply to Europe . 
The fundamental rights such as freedom of worship , freedom to meet and form associations , for example , are sacrosanct and inalienable rights to freedom from state intervention . 
Applied to Europe this means that a European Charter of Fundamental Rights must protect the citizens of the European Union against the interference and intervention of European institutions in the fundamental rights of the citizens . 
Furthermore , our group hopes that a written European catalogue of fundamental rights will put European integration on a firmer legal - ethical footing and help to create greater transparency and clarity for the citizens . 
Our group deems it particularly important that the European Charter should neither replace nor infringe Member States ' own provisions on fundamental rights . 
There has been heated discussion over the call for the European Union to sign up to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms drawn up by the Council of Europe in 1950 . 
The Council of Europe ' s Convention is now 50 years old . 
Our group opposes the Union ' s signing up to the Convention , not just because the existing European treaties do not permit this but , in particular , because we need our own catalogue of fundamental rights for the European Union , that is , one that reflects the convictions and beliefs we hold today . 
At the same time , however , this means that we must confine ourselves to the traditional fundamental rights and avoid extending the scope to social and economic fundamental rights , which are not legally enforceable at European level . 
I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the comprehensive work they have done , and hope that the deliberations of the European Parliament find their way into the Convention ' s discussions on the elaboration of fundamental rights . 
Mr President , the rapporteurs Duff and Voggenhuber , as well as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs , have done some sterling work . 
The report itself is sound because it conveys the key messages without going so far as to anticipate the work of the fundamental rights convention . 
I therefore nurture the hope that tomorrow in plenary sitting , this report will be adopted in the form we in the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights drafted it in . 
However there is one point which I would like to be amended . 
I have tabled an amendment to this effect on behalf of my group . 
It concerns the question , raised repeatedly today , as to whether the European Union should sign up to the European Convention on Human Rights . 
This was an important goal in the past . 
It was an important and appropriate goal in the past precisely because there was no intention , at that stage , to create our own , autonomous catalogue of fundamental rights at European Union level ; viewed in this light , it was far better to have that , as a second - best solution , than nothing at all . 
But that is not the path we want Europe to go down in the future , and nor should it . 
With all due respect for the Human Rights Convention , we need more ! 
We need our own Charter that provides our own answers to the questions raised by the age we live in . 
It must balance traditional , liberal rights with an adequate set of economic rights as well as offer effective solutions to issues pertaining to the social rights of citizens of the European Union and to the need to guarantee them a basic standard of social protection . . 
The European Convention on Human Rights does not fulfil this task . 
It is not in a position to do so because it came into being in the 50s , when political and social conditions were completely different . 
Seen in this light , it is time for all of us to call for constructive work to commence on our own Charter . 
We call upon the Convention on Fundamental Rights , the 62 politicians that David Martin mentioned , to take up this task . 
Let us support them in this . 
Mr President , the lawful object of the Charter of Rights is to protect the legitimate rights , expectations and aspirations of the citizen against the oppressive behaviour of government , business or other citizens ; and it is , of course , right that people should be thus safeguarded in respect of the European institutions and their activities . 
However , having said that , the crucial matter is not the existence of a Charter but the proper safeguarding of the citizen , and the means by which the citizen achieves such protection today vary from Member State to Member State . 
In view of the Community ' s normal legislative practice , I am somewhat surprised that it was not felt that this should be achieved by going with the grain of the established legal and administrative mechanisms of each Member State . 
In other words , policy should be implemented along the lines of a directive rather than a regulation . 
For example , I was speaking recently with some very senior judges in Germany who were clear , on the basis of the history and traditions of their country , that these matters should be contained in a justiciable charter . 
But my own country has a very different tradition in this respect , as our own Prime Minister has made clear , and it is not part of the United Kingdom ' s tradition to safeguard the citizen in this way . 
We do it differently and no less effectively . 
I think it is very relevant that the present socialist United Kingdom government is committed to ensuring that the Charter is non - justiciable and does not extend beyond existing rights to those not currently contained in the treaties . 
Mr President , for those countries which have a long tradition of directly , legally binding charters , a development of the kind proposed is not dramatic . 
But for those which do not , it is a very radical step ; and in the meantime , I will keep a very close watch on the United Kingdom and what it may say and do about all this . 
Mr President , we get the impression from some of the discussions on the subject of the Charter of Fundamental Rights that the family is becoming a politically incorrect concept in the European Union , so eager are some groups to dispense with the word . 
The UN Declaration of Human Rights , the Convention on the Rights of the Child , the Council of Europe ' s Social Charter and the European Parliament ' s resolution on the declaration fundamental rights and freedoms clearly conclude that there is a special need to protect the family . 
Unfortunately , not everyone sees the matter in this way , and , in my opinion , we can see an unnecessary conflict between the rights of women and those of families , which people try to accommodate by rejecting the family instead of seeking a radically new and egalitarian European policy on the family . 
This means that family values in society are falling into the wrong , or at least biased , hands . 
The new right is getting hold of them and using them to capture the moral high ground . 
That is why the theme is tiresome to so many . 
However , I believe that it would be a big mistake for the European Parliament to approve of this sort of trend . 
Families are firmly connected with the European notion of society . 
Like many others , the Christian Democrats want a society where freedom and responsibility meet halfway . 
I see it as a family society because it is difficult to learn about joint responsibility and solidarity if it is not learnt in a small , close - knit community . 
Society may be just , but it cannot ever love . 
Its bosom is too cold and its arm too short . 
Nevertheless , it is this very love that is a requirement for the healthy development of the individual . 
And a progressive Charter of Fundamental Rights will be of no use to Europe if the members of its society have no wish to respect them . 
Social development with that end in sight still takes place in the family . 
There can thus be no people ' s Europe without a family - oriented Europe . 
Families need recognition , encouragement , freedom of action and protection from social tyranny just the same as individuals do . 
Family rights and protection that have been provided for in legislation elsewhere in this respect should be reproduced in the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
It is clear that there is a great fear among many people , particularly the people who elected me , that this Charter will override national constitutions , in particular as regards the support and protection of fundamental institutions such as family , marriage and the protection of life , born and unborn . 
It is good to remember that Europe has shared a common position throughout its history regarding the importance of supporting and protecting family and marriage . 
This is enshrined in all our constitutions as well as the constitutions of those accession countries joining the European Union in enlargement . 
I can show you the constitutions of post - communist states in which the family and marriage is protected . 
I welcome the reference in our Charter to family life . 
Part 1 of Article 9 states :  " Everyone shall have the right to found a family " . 
It says it is inspired by Article 12 of the European Convention on Human Rights which states " men and women of marriageable age have the right to marry and found a family according to national laws " . 
Society recognises marriage not on moral grounds but because it recognises on a rational basis the stability it affords society socially and economically as well as securing future generations . 
In the interests of best practice - and whilst it is increasingly difficult to define family and we need great sensitivity and compassion in this area - we should not throw away the traditional family unit as the fundamental unit we strive towards , indeed we should uphold it . 
Point 3 of Article 9 states ,  " the Union shall ensure the protection of children " . It suggests we could add " in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child " . 
I support this , but I would strongly suggest that we incorporate into the wording of point 3 that first and foremost , the Union will support the family as the primary and natural educator and protector of the child as is their duty . 
The Union should only step into a primary role where the family is unable to fulfil its duty . 
As it states in the Convention ,  " the family as the fundamental group of society and natural environment for the growth and wellbeing of its members , particularly children , should be afforded the necessary protection and assistance to fully assume its responsibility within the Community " . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the current presidency of the European Union believes that the plan to establish a Charter of Fundamental Rights is an extremely important step in creating a Community of values which will act as a focus for taking the process of political union further . 
Many people are wondering how far we can go in this process of establishing a standard set of values and principles in this way , which would guarantee every citizen within the Union a set of rights that would strengthen their sense of belonging to an area with a shared civilisation . 
A question that has already been asked here today is what makes us want to join together and to transcend our enormous diversity by creating an entity which will unite us all . 
This is the key question as regards European identity , and it goes to the very root of why we are also joined together here , in this great home - the European Union . 
Over the decades , and having survived all kinds of traumas and crises , we have established a way of life based on the values of liberty , democracy and respect for the rule of law . 
For many years , a potential model based on the culture of freedom that we enjoyed in some countries in Europe was held up to those who lived in other parts of Europe . This culture is in fact part of a tradition of tolerance which has been cultivated in this continent and which now , in turn , is at the heart of the European project itself . 
The ascendancy of these ideas and the end of the totalitarian era which marked certain European societies has created a new situation to which we must respond . 
In our opinion , this is a question of responsibility and also of consistency . 
The enlargement of the European Union to cover new countries , which is an ethical imperative and an essential strategy for stability and peace in our continent , will unite us with states which have very diverse political cultures and which , in many cases , have young and untried institutions and structures . 
Both for these states and for those among them that are fighting for fundamental principles that will structure their contemporary societies , it is becoming important for these principles to be incorporated into a body of Community legislation to which they will remain linked after accession . 
Do not think , however , that this idea of a charter or a body of principles is merely a type of safeguard mechanism in the face of new Member States , that is to say a kind of defence against other countries . 
This is not the case , and that is not the purpose of all this . 
Recent events have demonstrated that what we hold to be stable and permanent within our own countries , within the Community of Fifteen , may , in certain circumstances , turn out to be much less helpful than we might hope in terms of addressing problems that are often quite simple , but in other cases revive old ghosts . 
The Charter of Fundamental Rights is nevertheless not intended to act as a substitute for the constitutional guarantees that we all enjoy in our own countries . 
We must dispose of this myth - which has been regularly used as a weapon to attack the Charter of Fundamental Rights - so that we can stop it being used as an excuse by those who seek refuge in subsidiarity in order not to shoulder their responsibilities as European citizens . 
No , we intend to provide something which will bring added value , a kind of additional guarantee , which would function as an instrument of the new European citizenship . 
Here , Mr President , we must overcome certain problems which the debate within the Convention is beginning to run into and which I think it will face even more frequently in the future . 
I would like to emphasise that in making these comments , I am speaking on behalf of the Council and not necessarily on behalf of my own country , which has adopted a rather , shall we say , ambitious position on this matter . 
The first issue regards jurisdiction . It concerns the need to guarantee complete compatibility between the two relevant legal systems , which could find themselves in conflict with one another in this process . 
This is a real problem and one of which we should all be aware . 
We cannot run the risk that when this charter comes into force a new area of legal uncertainty will be created . 
We are embarking upon an exercise designed to make our citizens ' rights more transparent - not to ensnare them in a web of legal contradictions that could prove to be a source of confusion . 
This also brings us to the issue , which has surfaced once again following Amsterdam , of the Union possibly signing up to the European Convention on Human Rights . 
The second issue is how we define the people this Charter is designed to protect , in other words , are we talking about those citizens who have a Community nationality , or are we aiming at those people who happen to be living in the Community area ? 
This is a fundamental question . 
We will have to accept the consequences whichever answer we opt for , and all the more so given that many of us genuinely feel that the institutions and the institutions alone are the real object of this new Charter . 
The third question , and a crucial one , is the body of rights . 
How far do we intend to go ? 
Are we to be content with a body of basic principles , a kind of lowest common denominator in academic European terms , or should reach out to more ambitious territory , and deal with the modern aspects of today ' s European Union ? 
It seems that today ' s public is capable of calling for an area enshrined within the Union , and covering not just their economic and social rights but also the new rights that have been presented as part of modern citizenship . 
How far is the Union prepared to go ? 
Lastly , my fourth question , which is perhaps the most important one . This is a debate in which some people are clearly advocating a text which is merely a declaration of intent , a piece of political rhetoric . 
But unless it is binding , will any Charter of Fundamental Rights be anything more than a mere statement of principles , without any real value ? 
If we create a Charter of Fundamental Rights which is merely a declaration of intent , will we not simply be taking refuge behind an issue which may be politically correct , but which does not reflect to the essence of the European Union as it is today ? 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , things have moved on and we cannot ignore this . This presidency believes that this clearly justifies the in - depth work that is needed on a Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
What I mean , of course , is that with the Treaty of Amsterdam we launched an ambitious project to establish a greater European area of freedom , security and justice . At the Tampere Special European Council , the European Commission and the Member States initiated a process of improving the structures for internal security , in order to provide stability in the daily lives of the general public , by guaranteeing to effectively combat organised crime and drug trafficking and to address other public order issues . 
As part of this European effort , it is becoming essential to ensure that all of this action , that is any future action that we may take in this area , relates to a very clear body of principles , capable of providing the public with clear and transparent legal protection . 
This is also why we feel - and we said so in Cologne when the idea of a Charter of Fundamental Rights was approved at the European Council - that this Charter is a vital element , central to the Union ' s future . 
Unless our principles are reinforced in this way , unless the Union provides itself with an ethical pillar which gives it credibility in the eyes of the general public - a pillar which , in fact can also serve as a model and a point of reference for its external relations - we run the risk of being derailed as a result of extending our policies and watering down our values . 
On this subject , I should like to mention the issue of the Intergovernmental Conference . 
It is obvious that the issue of incorporating the Charter of Fundamental Rights is a crucial factor for the whole credibility of the ICG . 
From the outset , the Portuguese Presidency has made its attitude quite clear : it is important to ensure that the agenda of the IGC should not simply be a kind of discussion of the division and management of power in an enlarged Union . 
The Charter of Fundamental Rights is , in this context , and this is how we shall view it until the end of our Presidency , a vital element in producing a more balanced result at this conference , which will in fact also cover other issues , notably the issue of defence and security . 
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , it is for all of these reasons that the Council is taking a special interest in the resolution that this Parliament has just adopted on the Charter of Fundamental Rights , and will continue to attach the greatest importance to this resolution . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , the Commission would like to begin by warmly congratulating Mr Duff and Mr Voggenhuber for the excellent report they have presented and on the fact that the report before us today emphasises something undeniable : the process of drafting the Charter of Fundamental Rights is heralding in a new era in the building of Europe , like it or not . 
I am convinced that the Union will accordingly accept its responsibilities towards the citizens of Europe , and will take a political initiative with a view to addressing the future political and moral legitimacy of the European Union itself . 
The goal just outlined both by Mr Duff and Mr Voggenhuber and by the representative of the Council Presidency will require us to make every effort to ensure that work in the Convention drafting the Charter of Fundamental Rights is concluded in time to be taken into consideration , both by the Intergovernmental Conference and by the Summit of Heads of State and Government at the end of this year . 
The Commission would like to begin by emphasising the importance of the composition of the Convention drafting the Charter of Fundamental Rights , because for the first time , representatives of the Community institutions and of national institutions , from both the legislative and executive branches , have been brought together in a single body established by the European Council . 
This composition , which I believe to be a wise choice , covering both the Community and national domains as it does , will help to strengthen the legitimacy of the draft charter in the eyes of the general public , as well as guaranteeing the success of the work currently being done . 
Once again , the Commission would like to make four key points quite clear to Parliament . 
The first is that in broad terms , the Commission agrees with and shares the European Parliament ' s objectives with regard to the legal force of the charter , as regards calling for it to be incorporated into the Treaties and as regards the full range of laws to be incorporated into the Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
However , I think that the report before us today also emphasises that there are questions to be addressed directly to the Convention , that is questions for those drafting the Charter of Fundamental Rights . These include , for example , the issue of the list of rights to be included in the charter . 
But there are other issues which go beyond the Convention ' s remit , and which are above all a matter for the Heads of State and Government meeting within the European Council , as well as for the Intergovernmental Conference itself . 
The truth is that the Commission , as stated in Paragraph 14 of the resolution tabled by the European Parliament , takes the view that the legal force of the charter should be determined by the Nice European Council . 
However , the Commission believes that the process of drafting the charter must yield a clear and concise text perfectly accessible to the European public , but which is also drafted in rigorous legal terms that can be accepted as legally binding . 
By the same token , the Commission feels that the Union must sign the European Convention on Human Rights , and that this is not a decision that can be taken by the Convention working on the Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
It must be taken by the European Council , when it decides on the legal force of the charter . 
The Commission advocated this as long ago as 1979 and did so again in 1990 . 
The idea that the European Union itself ought to sign the European Convention is also largely shared by the European Parliament . 
Although the Court of Justice of the European Communities ruled in 1996 that the Community could not sign the European Convention on Human Rights , I must emphasise that it made such a ruling because there was no legal basis in the Treaties for the Community to do so . 
Now that we are revising the Treaties and at the same time a Charter of Fundamental Rights is being drafted , this is a good time to address both issues : a charter with legal force and a political decision for the Union to sign the European Convention on Human Rights . 
I would also like to clearly state a second idea . 
There is no inherent contradiction between the Union having a Charter of Fundamental Rights and , at the same time , signing the European Convention on Human Rights . 
Quite the contrary . I would like to remind you that an extremely large majority of the political groups in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe three weeks ago adopted a recommendation that not only recognised and applauded the European Union ' s initiative to provide itself with a Charter of Fundamental Rights , but which also supported and looked favourably on the European Union actually signing the European Convention on Human Rights . 
Furthermore , I recommend that you carefully read the contribution of the observer representing the European Court of Human Rights in the Convention responsible for drafting the Union ' s Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
In the statement by the Court of Human Rights itself , the Court ' s representative expresses his support for the idea that the Union should have a Charter of Fundamental Rights and , secondly , that the Union should sign the European Convention on Human Rights . 
With regard to the issue of a conflict between the rulings of the Court in Strasbourg and rulings in Luxembourg , it is worth noting that today , under Community law , the Court of Justice of the European Communities always refers to the European Convention on Human Rights , to actual decisions by the European Court of Human Rights , as the source of inspiration for decisions by the Court of Justice of the European Communities on fundamental rights issues . 
This means that we are not talking about a revolution , but merely about enshrining in law what is today already practised in the Court of Justice of the European Communities in its relations with the European Convention on Human Rights itself and the Strasbourg Court . 
I would like to make two more observations on the list of rights . 
The Commission would like to reiterate that it is favourable towards the idea of a charter encompassing both civil and political rights , as well as social rights and rights deriving from European citizenship . 
However , the Commission would like to see rights drafted on the basis of the European Convention on Human Rights , whenever necessary , made innovative , to the extent that they update the 1950 drafting of the Rome Convention and respond to the new challenges of human rights as well as those resulting from information technology , bioethics , gender equality , as part of the fight against all forms of discrimination , and paying close attention to environmental protection . 
Lastly , I would like to say that in our opinion , the European Charter of Fundamental Rights is not intended to replace either national constitutions or the European Convention on Human Rights . 
It has an obvious target , namely the Union ' s institutions and the Member States , when they transpose the provisions of Community law into their respective national legal systems . It is also clear who the beneficiaries of this will be . 
Following the Tampere decision , it is the citizens of the Union ' s Member States who will benefit from the Union ' s fundamental laws , as well as the citizens of third countries who have permanent legal residence in EU countries , where the Heads of State and Government clearly said that they should have rights and obligations as similar as possible to the rights and obligations of the citizens of Member States . 
I am sure that under this action plan , with closer collaboration between the Commission and the European Parliament , we will have a legal instrument that will banish the spectre created by the fear of contradictions and the spectre of the European superstate , but which will above all ensure that there is a legal system , based on fundamental rights , for the benefit of those on whose behalf we are all here - the citizens of our Union . 
Thank you very much , Commissioner Vitorino . 
That concludes the debate . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon . 
Additional Commission contribution to the IGC
The next item is the Commission communication " Additional Commission contribution to the IGC on institutional reform : qualified majority for taxation and social security aspects of the internal market " . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I am now with you again , while the Commission continues its work and now that it has just concluded its work ( that is the least I can say ) on the matter which I wish now to present to you . 
Moreover , Mr President , if I wish to do my job properly , I shall have to return to the committee at 5 . 45 p . m . , as scheduled , in order to present another matter which I am responsible for , to do with the Community support framework for Portugal , while at the same time I must also answer another question in the following debate . 
I am not very sure , given the joint , or parallel , organisation of our work , how I shall be able to do this properly . 
I shall do my best , and I am pleased to give you an explanation , keeping in mind that we shall have other opportunities , within the relevant committees , particularly the Committee on Constitutional Affairs , to go into this subject , in connection with the Intergovernmental Conference and the reform of the institutions . 
I would like to offer a word of thanks to two of my fellow Commissioners , Frits Bolkestein and Anna Diamantopoulou , for the support they have given me in drawing up this text . I should like to remind you that I announced this text on 26 January when the Commission adopted its formal opinion and its proposals for the reform of the institutions . 
I did mention before this House our intention to outline and clarify some aspects of this opinion at a later date . 
A few days ago we did this with regard to the Union ' s system of jurisdiction , the role of the Court of Justice and the role of the Court of First Instance . Today we are doing this with regard to an extremely important , delicate and specific subject , the scope of qualified majority voting in certain areas of taxation and social security . 
Mr President , we shall continue in this way to fuel the debate on the negotiations , particularly on the matter which is of interest to Parliament , the independent European public prosecutor responsible for combating fraud , but also on an extremely important matter , the reorganisation of the Treaties . 
With regard to the subject which I have to present to you today , let me remind you that the Commission opinion issued on 26 January declared this to be one of the main areas we thought should remain subject to unanimity . 
We had identified five categories of exceptions to the general rule which we approved , according to which , within the Union , decisions would henceforth be taken by qualified majority vote . 
We had , however , identified , for institutional reasons , with regard to extremely serious or sensitive issues , five categories of exceptions requiring unanimity . 
This was one of them . 
We had also excluded decisions incompatible with the objectives of the internal market or which may give rise to distortions of competition . 
This is the point we have discussed today in order to complete our opinion . 
Ladies and gentlemen , I should first like to remind you that the proposals which you are to receive in a few moments , or in a few hours , do not include any transfer of jurisdiction , nor do they constitute an action programme in essence . 
These proposals concern the methods for decision making in matters of taxation and social security . 
Having said that , I should like to clarify three misunderstandings which sometimes arise . Firstly , the Commission is not demanding new jurisdiction for taxation and social security . 
Ever since the Treaty of Rome , the Treaties have provided for Community action in both these areas . 
Switching from unanimity to qualified majority is not a transfer of jurisdiction . 
The Commission is keeping strictly to the areas of jurisdiction which are already available to the European Community . 
Let me take VAT as an example . in this matter , we are confronted with an important part of Community legislation which has been developed since the 1970s . 
The fact that the Council may henceforth update this legislation by qualified majority , in order to take account of the development of , for example , e - commerce , can certainly not be considered a transfer of jurisdiction . the jurisdiction was already in place at Community level . 
It is only the method of decision making which may change . 
This is the first point that I wished to make clear . 
The second point I would like to make is that the Commission does not wish to impose the levelling of national tax systems or social security systems . 
The matter we wish to deal with is how to maintain what already exists and share it with all the new Member States . 
Let us not forget that in the exercise we are currently involved in , in these negotiations , it is a matter of knowing how the European Union will operate with 18 , 20 , 25 , 27 or even 28 Member States , in order to ensure that each of these states , the ones who are already members and the ones about to join us , may get the most out of the single market , a market whose treaties have made a driving force of the economic and social development of Europe . 
It is a case , then , of introducing qualified majority where we think it necessary , and leaving unanimous decisions where they are preferable . 
Finally , the Commission wishes to make it clear that this additional presentation does not encompass its entire programme for years to come in all areas . 
It does not include the measures that the Commission may envisage for the future , or the basic proposals that it intends to put forward at some point . 
My fellow Commissioners , Mrs Diamantopoulou and Mr Bolkestein , will inform you when the time comes regarding the various aspects of the Commission programme . 
I should now like to mention the principles which oriented our approach in the document which you are to receive shortly . 
Let me say again , unanimity is to remain the general rule . 
The Commission opinion issued on 26 January considered that , because they reflect the fundamental orientations of the national legislator in matters of economic and social policy and solidarity , taxation and social security are largely decisive in the national political choices of citizens . 
The Commission therefore considers it justifiable to retain unanimity in these areas as a basic principle . 
We confirm this approach . Moreover , these national choices are generally - let me specify - generally , neutral with regard to the construction of Europe . 
This is the first principle . 
But this first principle gives rise to a second , which is as follows : qualified majority to enable measures to be adopted which are more directly linked to the proper operation of the internal market . 
We know , and you know , that some national legislation in the field of taxation and social security may , by virtue of its content or nature , have repercussions for the operation of the internal market . 
The Commission considers that the Community must be able to adopt , by qualified majority , those measures which are most directly linked to the proper operation of the internal market . 
That is the second principle . 
Finally , my third principle , we must in future select the best instrument to respect subsidiarity . 
It may simply be a matter of coordination ; it may be a matter of establishing minimum requirements ; it may also be a matter , at a higher level , of harmonisation . 
But this selection of the best instrument must be limited to that which is strictly necessary . 
Generally speaking , the end goal of measures for which the transition to qualified majority is suggested would not be to harmonise the national legislative systems systematically , but simply to coordinate them . 
This is in any case , ladies and gentlemen , what has been going on for almost forty years in the field of social security . 
We also consider it important to introduce it to the field of taxation too . 
Still , before answering your questions , I would like briefly to mention the content of the proposals as you will read them . 
Regarding direct taxation , we propose the qualified majority in order to coordinate the campaign against fraud and tax evasion and in order to ensure proper handling of situations involving the legislations of several Member States . 
For the remainder , unanimity shall remain the general rule . 
Regarding indirect taxation , in order to combat fraud , and modernise and simplify the acquis in the light of economic developments , in order to take account of the objectives of the Treaty in environmental matters , we propose to act by qualified majority decisions . 
We further propose to retain unanimity for decisions on tax rates and the points of taxation . 
In short , still on the subject of taxation , in the interests of clarity and legibility we are proposing to combine the provisions for all tax measures in a single article which will be reorganised and rewritten as Article 93 . In so doing we are seeking to achieve coherence . 
My fourth point , this time , regarding the coordination of legislation in matters of social security , we propose qualified majority voting in order to update and adapt the conditions intended to avoid penalising people , not just workers . in addition to workers , there are also , for example , students who move about within the Community . 
We must avoid penalising them . 
Finally , with regard to the minimum requirements for social security , there is one possibility that we propose to extend to social security , which already exists for other areas of social policy , which involves adopting minimum requirements by qualified majority vote . 
Mr President , let me just say one final word to explain the state of mind I have continued to work in , as we had done under President Prodi in adopting our opinion on 26 January . 
The Commission undertook to carry out clear , proactive work . 
We eliminated any ideological thinking . 
We wish to keep to specific facts and tangible proposals in order to avoid approaching matters with slogans or ideologically . 
Let me confirm , finally , that , in addition to this extra presentation , I shall be returning to this House to give further presentations of the Commission opinion on the whole of the reform of the European institutions prior to enlargement , as we did on 26 January . 
Mr President , firstly I would like to welcome the Commission ' s approach in general to the IGC . 
The fact that we are getting this rolling presentation of more detailed explanations of issues is very helpful . 
Secondly , I agree with the Commission that this is indeed an extremely delicate issue . 
Taxation and social security get to what Mrs Thatcher used to call the nooks and crannies of everyday life . 
It is something that affects Member States and their people in a very sensitive way and we have to be careful before the Community moves into these fields . 
From what I hear , the Commission has got it more or less right and I would like to put a couple of questions for the sake of clarity . 
It is right to say where the Member States have already accepted a Community competence , in other words where we have already passed a measure , then QMV should apply to adjust that measure . 
That makes absolute sense . 
What I was not clear about was when he talked about other measures where it was necessary to make the single market work . 
How will that be defined ? 
It sounds fine but how do you define a measure that is essential to make the single market work ? 
That is a matter of intense debate . 
Similarly , the issue of harmonisation against coordination : one man ' s coordination can be another ' s harmonisation and we need clear definitions of what is coordination and what is harmonisation if this is to work . 
I wish him well in this area because it is an area in which we need a breakthrough . 
But it is not going to be easy to get an agreement and I would like to see the document in detail before passing judgement on what the Commissioner said this afternoon . 
Thank you , Mr Martin , for your assessment . I understand that it is related to the detailed analysis that you will make of the Commission text . 
The text will , as soon as it has been adopted - as is now the case - be made available towards the end of the afternoon . 
I took careful note of the reference you made to Mrs Thatcher and I appreciate the concern you feel , in the light of your own country ' s particular sensitivity in this matter , in stressing that we must adopt a pragmatic approach . 
Just now , ladies and gentlemen , I expressed my concern in this document , and in the discussions we will be having , to avoid ideology , to keep to a precise approach . 
This is what I said in the course of one of my presentation sessions in one of the national parliaments - your own parliament in Westminster , Mr Martin - and I think I made myself understood . Indeed I believe that this is the right approach . 
So let me repeat that our watchword was to say that qualified majority should be extended to everything that directly affected the operation of the internal market and which might compromise its proper operation in an enlarged Europe . 
We have , of course , worked on the three instruments which I mentioned , coordination , minimum requirements and harmonisation , treating harmonisation as the additional stage . 
Further to this general answer , with thanks for your remarks , I shall be attentive to your criticisms or your proposals when you have had time to peruse this document . 
Mr President , I believe it is absolutely right to comment that we do not need additional competences where taxation is concerned , but what we do need to do , in my view , is consider how we can develop the various topics more effectively . 
To quote but one example : the country of origin principle in matters of VAT . 
Would it not be possible to start by making adjustments to the current VAT systems , so that harmonisation systems can be implemented more efficiently at European level ? 
Or another example : double taxation , which causes so many problems . 
My question is this : will the Commission ' s work programme include a schedule for this , or how do you intend to proceed ? 
Thank you very much , Commissioner , for your comments . 
I do not understand your assertion that there will be no transfer of powers . 
If you are increasing qualified majority voting and therefore taking away the national veto , you are effectively transferring powers from the nation state to the European institutions . 
I am also very uncomfortable with your statement that you would only seek harmonisation of tax in areas " linked to the single market " because we know that , if that phrase is interpreted liberally - as the European institutions are inclined to do - practically everything can be said to be linked to the single market . 
Are you aware , Sir , that the leader of the British Conservative Party has said that we have reached the limits of European integration ? 
Are you aware of recent public opinion surveys showing that the British people are opposed to the transfer of further powers from the nation state to Brussels , and how will you take those facts into account ? 
Commissioner , I should like to pick up on a point which you made in your speech . 
You said that wherever we require unanimity , we shall retain unanimity , and wherever qualified majority voting is required , we shall use qualified majority voting . 
We all know of course that the European Parliament takes the clear view that qualified majority voting must apply as the rule and unanimity as the exception . 
If we forego this practice , then we also forego the subsequent promotion of the European Parliament to colegislator on all future legislative issues requiring a qualified majority . 
In other words , wherever we maintain unanimity , Parliament will not have the legitimate , democratic , important role which it will have in all cases requiring a qualified majority , cases which , as far as Parliament is concerned , and because of the democratic way in which it functions , should be the general rule . 
Mr Rübig , in answering I shall focus on the matter of VAT . 
You ask me about the Commission ' s work programme and I had said , as a precaution , that we had not discussed this matter today , that the Commission had established its work programme and that the Commissioners directly concerned would be coming to address you at the proper time . 
Nonetheless , you have asked me , broadly speaking , whether the great VAT modernisation project might be adopted with your proposals by qualified majority ? 
I must answer that it depends what you mean by ' great VAT modernisation project '  . 
More specifically , if you are thinking of the changeover from the transitional arrangements for levying VAT to the final arrangements , which would involve changing the points of taxation , we have clearly indicated that this matter would in any case be decided by unanimous decision , and I can confirm this . 
As regards modernisation of the system in the light of recent economic developments , and I am thinking in particular of all the implications of globalisation , liberalisation and e - commerce , this is a question that you should ask Mr Bolkestein . 
Jointly with the Member States , we are currently identifying what should go into this package . 
A meeting was held on 2 March but , frankly , I think it is rather too early to be able to give you any further details . 
However , I have now spoken about updating the VAT system , which means that I can now turn to Mr Helmer and say that I am well aware that these are sensitive issues , I am well aware of the importance accorded to taxation , in the name of national sovereignty , and to the matter of voting upon taxes and , in particular , upon the rates of taxation . 
After all , I did have a seat in the parliament of my own country for twenty - two years . I should merely like to use the force of my conviction together with you , certainly , and if possible also with the negotiators and Mr Tsatsos and Mr Brok , to say to the States which are reluctant and more sensitive than others on this subject ,  ' Please pay careful attention before rejecting the application of qualified majority voting to proposals which the Commission has made in a reasonable manner . ' 
We are talking about the proper operation of the internal market , and about the success of this internal market and all the countries involved in it , because it is in the interests of all the countries of the Union . 
But what will happen in a much enlarged Europe , where disparities are even greater than they are at present in social terms and budgetary matters ? 
This is why we recommend an extremely thorough , and I might almost say clinical analysis of these matters , in the interests of the internal market . 
Finally , I would like to thank Professor Tsatsos for having mentioned the connection between these proposals and the role of the European Parliament . 
Since I have been given the opportunity , let me confirm that one of the Commission proposals is to associate codecision directly to all measures decided by qualified majority as soon as legislative measures are involved . 
It is evident that in these matters affecting the internal market and its proper operation - social security or taxation - there are legitimate grounds for the European Parliament to express its opinion and adopt a position . 
Professor , we shall have further opportunities to state this and to try to convince the other negotiators of this throughout the coming months . 
Mr President , Commissioner Barnier , I am extremely pleased that the Commission has produced this initiative . 
It is clear that there is a need for harmonisation of taxation policy within the internal market and the currency union . 
Those who deny this call the future of the internal market into question . 
You talked specifically about VAT but I did not hear you mention two other taxes that have long been the subject of discussion , i . e . tax on interest and company tax . 
These are clearly two basic taxes that we are going to have to harmonise in some way . 
I do not know if you included this under tax evasion ; it does not feature in your document at any rate . 
Could you comment on this ? 
Mr President , I have to say that I am most impressed by the principles which the Commissioner has set out . 
If we can limit these changes to the rules on qualified majority voting in connection with the operation of the single market to minimum provisions and to practice developed by the Court of Justice , I believe , in fact , that it may well be possible to implement these changes with the approval of all the countries , which is of course incredibly important . 
At the same time , I have to conclude that , if the Commission wants to adhere to these three good principles , then it must , at some point or another , disagree with the note which the Presidency has submitted . 
The Presidency has , of course , tabled the proposal that qualified majority voting should also apply to those areas dealt with in Article 137 , paragraph 3 , subparagraph 3 , concerning the defence of employees ' and employers ' interests , and in Article 137 , paragraph . 
3 , subparagraph 2 , concerning the cancellation of contracts of employment . 
I have difficulty in seeing what the justification is for this on the basis of the three principles which have been laid down and which have been emphasised by the Commission . 
In the light of this , may I conclude that the Commissioner does not wish to comply with the Presidency ' s note on these proposals ? 
Commissioner , you are proceeding with the utmost caution , and that is an approach which I support . 
With reference to the argument of subsidiarity , I should simply like to tell you that , in my opinion , it is also important to put forward the argument of citizenship in fiscal matters . 
After fifty years of building Europe , it is unacceptable that the citizens of Europe should not be equal in the eyes of the law simply due to their being classed as resident or non - resident . 
The concept of citizenship is common property , on behalf of which we must move beyond failures such as Helsinki . 
I have three specific questions that I would like to ask you : 
My first question is this : do you anticipate that the instrument you are proposing might be applicable to the integration of financial markets and the requisite tax regulation thereof ? 
My second question is : does the instrument that you are proposing in the area of environmental taxation provide for qualified majority voting ? 
My third question is : would the instrument you are proposing enable the Council to put an end , by qualified majority decision , to the tax havens which exist within the European Union ? 
Thank you , Commissioner , for your statement . 
I am sure that none of us here will object to fraud and tax evasion being tackled but I must say that it is necessary to maintain the confidence of citizens in the Union , and I think that many Member State governments will be wishing to look very carefully at any extension of QMV before agreeing to it . 
It does strike very much at the heart of what is perceived as the national ability to conduct one ' s affairs . 
I am thinking in particular of things such as the withholding tax , which it would have been quite unacceptable to have subjected to a QMV regime . 
I hope those points will be borne in mind when you look at the practicality of getting the package through . 
We are very happy to combat fraud and tax evasion and to improve social security legislation , but there are some points where there will be difficulty in convincing all the Member States to follow . 
Commissioner , I have some very simple questions for you , which require just a ' yes ' or ' no ' answer in each case . 
Can you guarantee that the Commission will not seek , under any circumstances , to use qualified majority voting to impose the withholding tax ? 
Can you give the same guarantee in relation to the proposed tax on aircraft fuel , which was discussed in ECOFIN this week , and can you give the same guarantee in relation to corporation tax in the European Union ? 
Are there any circumstances where the Commission would seek to use qualified majority voting on any of those issues ? 
Can you guarantee that the Commission will not use qualified majority voting on any of those issues ? 
Mr President , I can imagine that according to some Members , the citizens are sensitive to European intervention in tax and social matters . 
I can tell you that in my country , many citizens lie awake at night , worrying about the fact that Europe leaves social and tax matters well alone on account of this unanimity . 
This is why I would like to direct two specific questions to the Commissioner . 
First of all , citizens who are very badly affected by non - intervention are mainly those who wish to enjoy free movement and , more specifically , cross - border workers . 
Dossiers concerning the coordination of social security , expansion into third countries , supplementary social security systems have all been on the Council ' s table for years , untouched . 
Could the Commissioner tell me if the present issue is also affected by qualified majority voting ? 
Secondly , I would like to fall in with the Members who have asked whether the packages regarding the " Prima Rollo Group "  , which are on the table , would be subject to qualified majority voting , as referred to by the Commissioner . 
I should like to answer a number of you collectively , particularly on what we might term the tax package . 
Mr Leinen discussed this , as did Mr Baltas and , just now , Mrs Van Lancker . 
Let me make one preliminary remark . The purpose of this speech is not , let me repeat , to foreshadow the conditions for the execution of the Commission ' s work programme . 
In order to facilitate the task of reforming the institutions , we wish to distinguish the everyday administration of policies ( the normal work of the Commission , and we have regular meetings on the subject ) from the reform in the context of the accession of thirteen new Member States . 
Obviously , the Monti package is related to the proper operation of the internal market . 
This is why Mr Monti , a few months ago , and now my fellow Commissioner , Frits Bolkestein , continue to make it a political priority . 
I hope that all these efforts will produce a result before the conclusion of this IGC , before the ratification which will follow the Treaty of Nice , and that we shall have this tax package at our disposal , in the interest of the proper operation of the internal market , before any amendments to the Treaty may be ratified . 
Mrs Thorning - Schmidt and a number of you , including Mrs Van Lancker , mentioned the social matters which are extremely important , particularly with regard to third country nationals . 
We do wish to include them as beneficiaries of social policy ( Articles 42 and 137 , which are to be subject to qualified majority voting ) . 
Once again , regardless of ideological considerations , we have reordered the paragraphs of the new Article 137 in order to subject to qualified majority voting everything which affects , from our objective point of view , the proper operation of the internal market : social security and protection of workers , worker protection in the event of cancellation of the work contract , collective representation and defence of the interests of workers , including codetermination , working conditions for third country nationals legally resident on Community territory , and financial contributions for the promotion of employment and job creation without prejudice to the terms of the Social Fund . 
The recent history of the development of the European Union shows that , in Maastricht , we were aware that creating the single currency would require improved coordination of social measures at European level , but , at the time , we had not yet achieved it . 
In Amsterdam , as I remember specifically , since I was one of the negotiators of the Treaty almost up to the end , we expanded the definition of the objectives of social policy within the Treaty and the Community was granted its own areas of competence , complementary to those of the Member States . 
In Nice , prior to the great enlargement , I would ask you , please , to see this text as anticipating events . 
As we exist right now , we could continue to operate more or less and to live together , but that is not what it is all about . 
We should form a Community , and I do not feel that we can subsequently come back to this sensitive issue if we do not resolve it now . As I said , we must form a Community of 27 or 28 Member States , despite the much greater disparities . 
We wish to ensure that the Community has effective means to support this restructuring at Community level . 
We therefore propose that it should be possible to adopt these minimum requirements by qualified majority vote , and not by unanimity , in all the areas I have mentioned . 
Finally , I should like to tell Mr Jonckheer that , for all sorts of reasons , I absolutely agree with him on the matter of citizenship . 
I should like to assure him that , with regard to tax provisions in matters of the environment ( many of which are directly connected with the operation of the internal market in addition to citizens ' welfare and quality of life ) , we are well aware that these issues entail the risk of distortions of competition , which would moreover be exacerbated by enlargement , and we therefore propose that in fact all measures for taxation in matters of the environment should be decided by qualified majority . 
I am aware that my answers are necessarily incomplete given the time available . 
Mr Bolkestein , Mrs Diamantopoulou and myself will have the opportunity to address you again in future . 
We wish to initiate this debate , and to fuel and feed it on the basis of these proposals , as I undertook , in order to facilitate to some extent , the difficult negotiations within the Intergovernmental Conference . 
But , in the final analysis , as we all know , what we need is the political will . 
Question Time ( Commission ) 
The next item is Question Time ( B5 - 0201 / 2000 ) . 
We will examine questions to the Commission . 
First Part
Question No 39 by ( H - 0174 / 00 ) : 
Subject : Consideration of the international legal status of the waters of the Western Sahara On 4 November 1999 Mr Fischler ' s head of office wrote a letter to Mr Pierre Galland , who had taken an interest in the effects of the EU - Morocco fisheries agreements on the Western Sahara self - determination process . 
Given the EU ' s support for UN resolutions on the Western Sahara and the concern generated by the ambiguous content of the letter sent to Mr Galland , does the Commission not think that , as a matter of urgency and in agreement with the Council , it should officially consult the UN Secretary - General regarding a legal definition of the Western Sahara ' s waters based on international law ? 
It should be borne in mind that the territory in question is engaged in a process of self - determination and the negotiations on fisheries agreements should therefore not lead to any misunderstanding regarding the EU ' s attitude towards the territory ' s future , nor should its inhabitants ' rights be infringed . 
The Commission confirms the position expressed by the chef de cabinet of the Commissioner for Agriculture and Fisheries on 11 January in response to a letter from Mr Galland on behalf of the coordination committee of the Sahrawi support organisation . 
That position recalled that the fisheries agreement which expired in November 1999 applied to Morocco ' s fishing zone which is defined as waters over which Morocco has sovereignty or jurisdiction . 
This definition does not in any way affect the status of Western Sahara and its coastal waters . 
This is a matter which falls under international law , and in particular various UN resolutions , and the responsibility of the UN Secretary - General , whose efforts to find a just , equitable and durable solution have been consistently supported by the European Union . 
I would like to start by thanking the Commissioner for his kind answer , although I find it to be completely insufficient . 
The letter which I referred to in my question was very unclear as to the European Commission ' s conception of the coastal waters of the Western Sahara . 
However , you have expressed it with extreme clarity ? . 
There is no doubt that the Kingdom of Morocco is currently occupying the Western Sahara and this territory is currently undergoing a process of self - determination . 
However , according to international law , it should be considered that Morocco has control over that territory , although it in no way has sovereignty over it . 
If it cannot have sovereignty over the territory , neither can it have sovereignty over its coastal waters . 
This would prejudice the future of those waters , given the possibility that the planned referendum on self - determination will support the independence of that territory . 
What situation would the Government of the Western Sahara then be in with regard to the waters which it would have the sovereign duty to administrate ? 
I agree absolutely that we should reach a fisheries agreement with Morocco which is favourable to the interests of the European Union fishing fleet , in particular the Spanish fishing industry . 
But I believe this is not contradictory , on the contrary , with a legitimate interpretation of international law which I ask to be done formally . 
Does the Commission commit itself to formally consulting the Secretary - General of the United Nations ? 
Yes or no , Commissioner ? 
I have many regrets in life and one of them is that I am not a lawyer , so if the honourable gentleman will excuse a scriptural reference , I tip toe on these waters with some nervousness ! 
But I understand that international law is quite clear and that the question of territorial waters is directly related to the question of the sovereignty of a territory itself . 
That is a question which is being considered at the moment in the context of the referendum and of the UN Secretary - General ' s initiative . 
As I am sure the honourable gentleman knows , we strongly support that initiative and if there is any way that we can assist the UN Secretary - General , then we would certainly want to do so . 
That also goes , of course , for his special representative . 
As they deal with the same subject , Questions Nos 40 and 113 will be taken together , at the request of the Commission . 
Question No 40 by ( H - 0241 / 00 ) : 
Subject : Landmines In a recent statement in the UN General Assembly the Council Presidency stated that the EU remains the main contributor to de - mining programmes worldwide . 
However , people in the field complain about the limited role the EU is playing and the confused nature of EU funding for de - mining . 
Could the Commission provide me with a breakdown of the funding provided by the EU for all activities relating to anti - personnel mines ? 
How much money goes into mine action programmes and how much into R & D in de - mining technology ? 
Could the Commission draft an annual report on its APM policy to eliminate the existing lack of clarity ? 
Could the Commission tell me what progress is being made with regard to introducing a regulation on anti - personnel mines , which would provide a legal base for these activities and bring them together within a single transparent framework ? 
Question No 113 by ( H - 0251 / 00 ) : 
Subject : EU action to combat mines Will the wide range of action programmes to combat mines have to be financed solely from budget line B7 - 661 , which is now more justified than ever ? 
What provisions will be taken to ensure that NGOs enjoy effective access to Union funding ? 
With reference to the conditions making aid conditional on accession to and compliance with the Treaty of Ottawa , what criteria and procedures will be used for the implementation of EU actions to ensure that , in the field , some vulnerable communities are not victimised twice ? 
I hope you will excuse me that in answering the questions together , I take slightly longer . 
I am particularly pleased to have the opportunity to reply to Mr van den Bos on anti - personnel mines today . 
I will also take this opportunity to respond to Madame Carlotti ' s question . 
The Commissioners today adopted a communication and a draft regulation on European Union action against mines with the aim of achieving better coherence , greater effectiveness and more visibility in the very considerable activities in this area in which we are already involved . 
In doing this , we are responding to and building on the initiative of Parliament to create a specific budget line for mine action . 
Anti - personnel mines create appalling casualties in many of the poorest parts of the world . 
But they are not only a constant and treacherous threat to life and limb . They are obstacles to economic development and to the implementation of a range of Community programmes in support of reconstruction , rehabilitation and development . 
That is why the Union is already involved extensively in mine action across the globe and why we were so active in the negotiation and conclusion of the Ottawa Convention on the prohibition and destruction of anti - personnel mines which entered into force a year ago . 
Over the past eight years , European Community support for mine action has exceeded EUR 180 million . 
We have intervened in all corners of the world . 
We have supported action by national authorities , international organisations , and not least NGOs . 
We have contributed to de - mining and mine destruction as well as to victim assistance and research into new de - mining technology . 
But until now , we have not had a coherent overall approach to our mine action . 
To take full advantage of the diversity of our instruments and funding mechanisms , we must make sure that we have a framework in which we can formulate the necessary horizontal guidelines and priorities in order to ensure effectiveness and consistency in what we do . 
The funding of mine action from the geographic programmes and their budget lines will continue . 
Mine clearance and other forms of mine action are often a preliminary step to any sensible development programme . 
Therefore they should form part of national or regional reconstruction and rehabilitation plans . 
The new regulation and the special budget line will support and complement the geographic line by providing the overall policy framework and by functioning as a general reserve and a source for funding for international programmes . 
The resources available for EU mine actions should remain at least at the same level in real terms as we have achieved over the last few years , that is about EUR 30 million a year . 
Regular programmes for mine clearance and destruction under our new policy should principally benefit countries which have subscribed to the Ottawa Convention . 
But we must also be ready to provide exceptional assistance to mine victims at their homes or when they have been displaced , even when they have the misfortune to find themselves in a non - signatory country . 
Finally , the European Union is recognised as one of the leading contributors to mine action within the international community . 
The entry into force of the Ottawa Convention a year ago provided us with a forceful new instrument and a set of ambitious targets for the years to come . 
We have signed up to the objective of eliminating all landmines worldwide in ten to fifteen years . 
That will require determination , consistency and perseverance . 
With the funding and coordinating mechanism under the new regulation and communication , we are well placed to take on that challenge . 
I would like to thank the Commissioner for his reply which I find extremely satisfactory . 
It indicates the Commission ' s high level of commitment to this issue . 
I only have one additional question , which is whether the Commissioner would submit to us an annual report on the Commission ' s actions in this field ? 
 - The new regulation provides for the Commission to submit an annual report to the Council and to Parliament on its actions the previous year by 30 April of the following year . 
A breakdown of the mine - action funding per country by the European Union from 1992 to 1999 , as well as for projects in the last year , is attached to the communication and we will continue to provide that sort of financial information as well . 
Can I say how grateful we are to the honourable Member , and to other members of this House , for their encouragement and support and for the leadership they have shown in this issue , which is of enormous importance as , alas , we continue to discover . 
Thank you very much , Commissioner , for this comprehensive answer . 
Might I ask you to clarify one point ? 
If the justification for budget line B7 - 661 were increased , what measures could be taken in order guarantee effective NGO access to Union funding ? 
One thing that we obviously need to do is to advertise very clearly what is available . 
We have taken a website that will enable us , I hope , to inform the NGO community and others more clearly about what is available . 
We intend establishing a multi - annual work plan . 
We will refer to that on our website . 
I hope , therefore , that NGOs will feel involved in what we are doing . 
We depend a great deal on their active support and understanding . 
I should like to mention one other area which is of concern to them , even though they are not always so directly involved in it , namely the whole area of research , on which we spent EUR 17 million out of more than EUR 40 million in the last full year in 1998 . 
But overall I can assure the honourable Member that we will be involving NGOs as much as possible . 
They have a great deal to contribute to this important work . 
Question No 41 by ( H - 0212 / 00 ) : 
Subject :  ' Dialogue on Europe ' initiative The President of the Commission intends to launch this initiative on 8 March 2000 . 
The Commission ' s communication on the subject implies that the intention is to explain the consequences of the IGC 2000 to the public opinion of the Fifteen . 
Since this initiative falls under the PRINCE programme for providing information to the citizens of Europe , does the Commission intend to include the Charter of Fundamental Rights as one of the main themes of this initiative ? 
Mr President , in agreement with the European Parliament , the Commission has taken the initiative of instigating what we are calling the ' Dialogue on Europe ' which is intended to raise awareness regarding the issues involved in institutional reform in the context of the enlargement of the Union . 
The Commission considers that all the institutional matters liable to have a connection with the work of the Intergovernmental Conference should in fact come within the scope of the debate which has been initiated . 
This also , therefore , applies , and this is my answer to your question , to the matter of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of citizens . 
In complete agreement with Mr Vitorino , I can assure you of the Commission ' s determination , in close collaboration with Parliament and your representatives , both at the Intergovernmental Conference and in the convention for negotiation of the charter , to promote dialogue on all current thinking on the future of the Union . 
This dialogue on Europe will be developed with all national and regional institutions , but also with opinion formers , the media and organisations in civil society . 
This is completely justified given the actual purpose of the Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
Mr President , I would first of all like to thank the Commission for its reply . 
I am satisfied with it for two reasons . 
Firstly , it links the Charter of Fundamental Rights with the Intergovernmental Conference , which is the political objective of this Parliament expressed in the report by Messrs Duff and Voggenhuber . 
Secondly , because it is going to include it within this campaign . 
Furthermore , I was very pleased with Mr Lamy ' s reply - which was inevitable , given that Mr Lamy knows these issues very well - concerning the decentralisation of the information campaign . 
I believe that this is an important objective because , if we want to reach the people , we have no choice but to go to where they are and , therefore , the decentralisation of the campaign is a priority task . 
As on other occasions , such as the Intergovernmental Conference of 1996 , this Parliament must offer the Commission its support in order to monitor information activities . 
I am pleased to hear the Commissioner ' s comments on the Charter . 
I would like to push him to give details about the nature of the campaign . 
Last Wednesday we had a very successful launch of the European information campaign involving Commissioners and Members of the European Parliament . 
I would like the Commissioner to reassure me that , when the campaign is decentralised , information offices in the Member States will involve Members of the European Parliament in the information campaign as a matter of course . 
After all , it is the MEPs who are supposed to represent the citizens . 
We are at least as well - placed as the Commission to engage in that dialogue with the citizens . 
The answer to Mr Martin ' s question is ' yes '  , and I can include Mr Barnier and Mr Vitorino in that . 
The Commission does intend to involve Members of the European Parliament at grass roots level in the Dialogue on Europe initiative . 
Indeed , no later than this evening there is to be a coordination meeting between the Commission administration and that of the European Parliament in order to determine the practicalities of the approach to be adopted . 
The simple answer , Mr President , is ' yes '  . 
Question No 42 by ( H - 0215 / 00 ) : 
Subject : Environmental threats facing Europe The recent leak of cyanogen into the river Danube has revealed the existence of hidden environmental threats which could imperil the whole of Europe , while a report by the European Environment Agency predicts that during the first decade of the 21st century the production of paper , glass and plastic waste will increase by 40 to 60 % , emissions of cadmium and mercury will rise by 20 to 30 % , and waste management will place a strain on the environment with heavy metals , gases and other toxic substances combining to create the ' greenhouse effect ' and generate air and water pollution . 
On the basis of the information provided in the report , how does the Commission intend to react , what policies will it pursue and what measures will it take to safeguard Europe from the environmental threats it faces ? 
Mr Fischler will reply on behalf of Mrs Wallström . 
I should like to thank the Commissioner for his answer . 
Of course , the European Parliament appreciates the Commission ' s efforts to promote Community policy on environmental protection and , especially , its efforts to incorporate the environmental dimension into all policies , i . e . mainstreaming . 
However , since you mention the problem of the pollution of the Danube , I should like to ask a supplementary question : you are obviously well aware of the recent accusations by the Romanian Minister for the Environment , Mrs Lilian Mara , who maintains , and many of us share this view , that the ecological damage caused to the Danube by the NATO bombings is far worse than the damage caused by the recent leak of cyanogen . 
As we all know , the bombings destroyed bridges , oil refineries and chemical factories , which damaged the ecology of all the areas along the Danube . 
I would like to hear your views on the matter , Commissioner : do you intend to take action for the economic , ecological and cultural restoration of the areas which were damaged ? 
Mr President , Mrs Karamanou , firstly , as I am sure you are aware , my colleague Mrs Wallström paid a visit to Romania and Hungary and was able to get an idea of the scale of the disaster at first hand . 
She also reached agreement with the competent ministers of these countries on setting up a task force to handle these issues . 
The key issues to be addressed by this international task force have already been established . 
As far as the financial aspect is concerned , the Commission is in the process of looking into which funds could be made available for an emergency aid package . 
In addition , the PHARE and ISPA programmes are of course available in principle , which brings us to the question - to be answered in conjunction with the States concerned - as to how much money could be employed from these two funds . 
Commissioner , I am convinced that the Committee on Budgets will be delighted to read this information as soon as they are provided with it . 
Commissioner , thank you for your answer . 
However , I also have a number of queries because , during your hearing before Parliament ' s Committee on the Environment and here today , you talked of decommissioning nuclear reactors which , as we all know , are extremely dangerous , as quickly as possible . 
And not just these reactors , but also the reactors in Slovakia and Lithuania . 
Of course , I appreciate that there are certain difficulties involved in closing them down immediately , but is that the earliest possible date ? 
I just wonder because , although you set a specific date for units 1 and 2 , saying that they would be closed down before the end of 2002 - which in my view is quite a long way off because , as you know , we are afraid of an accident in any one of the four reactors , which would be disastrous both for Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people , as well as for neighbouring Greece and Europe too , since , as you know , these installations are very dangerous - what is stopping you from setting a date for the closure of reactors 3 and 4 ? 
And why are you keeping them open until 2006 , or even longer as you will no doubt turn round and tell us in the future ? 
Mr Trakatellis , opinion is extremely divided as to how unsafe the reactors 3 and 4 actually are . 
I was very surprised to learn that I was openly criticised by some Member States following the conclusion of the agreement in Bulgaria , because this agreement was said to be too hard on Bulgaria and to go far too far , and because safety standards at these power stations were said not to be as bad as the Commission was claiming . 
Now it is up to me who I believe . 
I believe the reports that were compiled at the outset , and I still maintain that we must abide by the principle of risk avoidance in this case . 
On the other hand , I must ask you to bear in mind that the decision on whether to go for the nuclear option in energy production is the sovereign right of each and every State . 
The Commission is no more able than Parliament or the Council to forbid any country in the world from using nuclear energy , or to force them to shut down reactors without delay . 
All we can do is put a package together , as we have done in Lithuania and Slovakia , and , just recently in Bulgaria too , that enables the country in question to deal with the economic and financial consequences of shutdown operations of this kind , and their impact on society and infrastructure . 
It must be left to the country concerned to determine how to implement the objectives set as quickly as possible . 
All I can say is that this is what proved to be attainable during negotiations , which I headed myself part of the time . 
If we had tried to achieve more , then we would have failed to reach agreement and ended up with no shutdown dates whatsoever . 
You can always do one of two things in such cases : either accept the attainable or maintain a very intransigent attitude , which may , at the end of the day , salve your conscience on the environmental policy front , but will leave you empty - handed . 
As a matter of fact , I believe we achieved a particularly positive outcome in Bulgaria , in view of the extremely difficult situation there . 
I would like to point something else out to you , somewhat circuitously , but you will soon see why . 
As far as the shutdown dates for blocks 3and 4 are concerned , it says in the text that this will be decided on in 2002 . 
So that is quite some way off the shutdown date we had mind . 
As the Commission understands it , this shutdown will take place by latest - and I repeat , latest - 2006 , which is also stated in the text . 
The fact that the Bulgarian government signed this text without questioning this , has a certain political significance . 
That is all I can say on the matter , but I think you know what I am driving at . 
Questions to Mr Lamy
Question No 44 by ( H - 0206 / 00 ) : 
Subject : Trade preference for least developed countries Precisely what damage in specific European sectors is Commissioner Lamy seeking to avoid in his commitment to waive all EU quotas and export tariffs on ' essentially ' all products and services from the world ' s least developed countries ( LLDCs ) rather than waiving them in their entirety ? 
As LLDCs account for less than 0 . 5 % of world trade , will he reconsider his reservations in this respect ? 
What timetable does he propose for the implementation of this measure ? 
The European Community initiative intended to offer free access to the markets of industrialised countries , and the most advanced developing countries , to essentially all products of the least developed countries , was launched as part of the process which led to the Seattle Conference . 
The initiative was drawn up immediately after the Singapore Conference , when the Council invited the Commission to make proposals in favour of the least developed countries , both for immediate action and additional medium - term action . 
In its conclusions dating from June 1997 , the Council made reference to the expression :  ' essentially all the products of LLDCs '  . 
Regarding the immediate measures , in the GSP regulation at the end of 1998 , the Community established , for all least developed countries , a system equivalent to that of the Lomé Convention , as the Council had requested . 
In 1999 , as part of the post - Lomé negotiations , the Council , among other things , specified what it intended to do regarding market access for LLDCs and decided that the Community should , in the year 2000 , commence a process which , by the end of the multilateral trade negotiations and by the year 2005 at the latest , will enable free access for essentially all LLDC products , based on the trade system existing under the Lomé Convention . 
The difference between all and essentially all products affects , as we well know , a number of specific agricultural products . 
This is the mandate which the Commission was given and therefore , naturally , we must respect it . 
My own services are currently preparing proposals which will be presented to the Council when they are completely ready . 
At the same time , the Community , in its ' least developed countries ' initiative within the framework of the WTO , seeks to associate other commercial partners to this market opening policy of ours , which would consist of exempting essentially all the products of LLDCs from duties and quotas . 
This initiative is intended , if I may say so , to kick - start our own proposal which , combined with what we can achieve with other parties , would enable the least developed countries to sell their products , in virtually total freedom , on a large number of markets other than our own . 
I am thinking particularly of the markets of the developed countries : the United States , Japan , Australia , and New Zealand . 
I am also thinking , possibly , of a number of emerging countries , already industrialised . 
At the moment I am making great efforts to move forward this initiative which we have included in the rescue package which we are working on in Geneva . 
That is the state of play at the present time . 
As the questioner indicates , we should ask whether the restriction associated with the expression ' essentially all products ' may be retained for very much longer as soon as we consider granting these countries total access to our markets . 
As far as the Community is concerned , following the signature of a new agreement with the ACP countries which no longer includes the obligation to offer equal access for all ACP countries , we could in fact start thinking about more extensive liberalisation of access to our markets in favour of the least developed countries . 
I should not , however , wish to start thinking about this until our present initiative regarding essentially all products has reached a sufficiently advanced and credible stage , following talks with our commercial partners , to be able to move on to the next stage . 
I should specify , finally , that access to the market is not the only requirement for countries that , occasionally , do not have a sufficient export capacity for internal reasons , be they distribution , logistical or transportation capacities . 
It is therefore necessary to look at what is termed ' capacity building '  , i . e . technical assistance measures to be implemented in order to ensure that this access is tangible and not just theoretical . 
This is the response I wished to give to this question which looks to the future . 
I am grateful to Commissioner Lamy for his answer , as far as it went . 
I certainly agree with what he said in the last part of his answer about the need for capacity - building in the least developed countries as well as , perhaps the need for asymmetrical measures , resulting in a certain level of protection for their markets that we do not seek to enjoy in return . 
But my main concern in asking the question - and I do not feel this has been fully dealt with - is over this matter of exactly what " essential products " means . 
Commissioner Lamy talks about certain agricultural products , but it has been precisely the protectionism of the common agricultural policy that has most offended developing countries and which has held back development for many of those countries in terms of agricultural production . 
What more specific comments can he make about which sectors and which products will be concerned , and for how long ? 
That is the sort of message we want to hear . 
I wonder whether it would not be a better step forward , in terms both of winning the confidence of the developing countries and of acting as an example to other trading partners , for us , as Europe , to say :  " now is the time ; we are going to offer this now . 
We do not want to wait for five years ; let others follow our example " . 
There are two parts to my answer to this question . 
Firstly , I think I gave a clear answer to your question when I said that the difference between ' all ' and ' essentially all ' affected only a really very limited number of agricultural products . 
I am thinking particularly of sugar which can effectively constitute an additional resource for several of these countries . 
You know that the Community , and in this case the Commission , has considered the idea of a complete review of conditions in the sugar industry . 
These are matters to which we shall no doubt return . 
But that is something that only we need concern ourselves with . 
Regarding the more comprehensive initiative that we have undertaken , I would like to try to convince you that at this stage it is more important , as far as these least developed countries are concerned , that the Community should persuade the United States , Japan and a number of developed countries to follow our initiative because , in terms of real export capacity , this initiative opens up a market to them which is , roughly , twice or three times larger than our own . 
In terms of our priorities , then , Mr Howitt , and in terms of efficiency , I feel that , given the choice of either eliminating the difference between ' essentially all ' and ' all '  , a problem which I acknowledge must be solved one day , and considerably increasing the size of the market opened for ' essentially all ' products , duty free and quota free , we are on the right track if we work , in the first place , on expanding the market . 
Thereafter we will be able to start to think , as you wish , on the approach we might adopt with the Member States , who sometimes show some reluctance , and a European Parliament which will also have to be convinced , when the time comes , that we should go on to the second stage . 
Question No 45 by ( H - 0208 / 00 ) : 
Subject : China ' s accession to the WTO In keeping with the Commission ' s opinion on the IGC , would the Commission agree that the accession of China to the WTO represents a sufficiently important agreement to justify invoking the assent procedure of this Parliament ? 
Will the Commission agree to submit the agreement on China ' s WTO accession to this Parliament ' s assent even if the IGC has not yet been concluded ? 
Mr Clegg , the Commission acknowledges that the agreement on China ' s accession to the WTO is an extremely important decision . 
It is , moreover , exactly the type of agreement which would be submitted to Parliament ' s assent if the Commission ' s proposals to the Intergovernmental Conference were accepted by the Member States . 
The fact remains , however , that at this stage they are no more than proposals and the Commission cannot contravene the regulations in force under the Treaty establishing the Communities , nor can it anticipate the decisions which the Member States will take at the Intergovernmental Conference . 
Let me remind Mr Clegg , if necessary , that , in consideration of its service - related aspects , the agreement on China ' s accession would in any case be subject , in principle , to the consultation procedure envisaged under Article 300 . 
This would mean that Parliament should have the opportunity , pursuant to Article 300 , to declare its opinion on this agreement . 
Obviously , in the normal course of things , it is up to the Council to consult the European Parliament . 
This is the legal and institutional answer to your question , Mr Clegg . 
With regard to more practical aspects , let me restate my determination to try to find some way , together with the European Parliament , to have Parliament play an active part in these negotiations . 
I have said this on several occasions , and I feel it is important in terms of relations between the Commission and Parliament and also in terms of the effectiveness and capacity of the negotiator in this type of case . 
I am therefore perfectly willing , as always , to discuss this matter in somewhat greater depth with the relevant parliamentary committee . 
Thank you very much for that reply . 
Let me reiterate my appreciation that the Commission and Parliament are , for the first time , speaking with one voice on changes to Parliament ' s role in important trade agreements . 
I just want to ask you a non - legal and institutional question : if we look , for instance , at the decision which was taken to submit the Uruguay Round conclusions to the assent of this Parliament , there were some legal questions relating to the institutional and budgetary implications of the Agreement , but the decision was fundamentally a political recognition that this was an agreement of such importance that the strict boundaries of what was then Article 113 could , so to speak , be overstepped , thus allowing the Agreement to be submitted to Parliament ' s assent . 
My own view is that the accession of China to the WTO , whilst perhaps not quite as eye - catching as a multilateral agreement , is just as important to the future global trade regime , and that a similarly political position might therefore be taken by both Parliament and the Commission . 
I would urge you to do so . 
I would ask you what you think we could do together to promote this type of action . 
Like you , Mr Clegg , I believe that China ' s accession to the WTO , whenever it takes place , is a matter of crucial importance . 
Having said that , I feel that the comparison you make with the Uruguay Round is not totally justified . 
At the time of the Uruguay Round , particularly when the mechanism for the settlement of disputes was being set in place , there was a institutional shift in the international legal order which justified assent , specifically with regard to an unequivocal reading of the Treaties . 
As regards China , legally speaking this is the procedure for the accession of a country to the WTO , and it is proceeding according to a relatively appropriate and familiar route , one which , for the time being , has not given rise to any disputes . 
I suppose , then , that the Council will be reluctant to require assent because the Council is not in the habit of going much further than is required by the Treaties in terms of consultation with Parliament . 
The important thing , from our mutual point of view , is that , when the time comes , we can , either in committee or in plenary session , have a debate on the conditions which , I hope , will be those we have agreed with the People ' s Republic of China , and that this will be completely transparent . 
Personally , I am perfectly willing to take part in this . I know , when the time comes , that questions of a rather more political nature will be asked . 
That is perfectly normal , I feel , and I look forward to it . 
Mr President , Commissioner , I suppose our parliamentary members should be satisfied with the consultation procedure at this stage , although I myself agree with Mr Clegg that it should have been possible - to touch briefly on legal matters - to invoke the assent procedure by now . 
My question , however , concerns concrete matters and the substance of this agreement . 
When talks between the EU and China commenced , we MEPs were told that there would really not be any great problems , as approximately 80 % of the EU objectives were contained in the outcome of the negotiations between the United States and China . 
Now , however , it would seem that the rest , the remaining 20 % , are so problematic , that time is passing by and the talks have already ended in deadlock on many occasions . 
I would like to ask whether it is a question of the Chinese not being prepared to accord us the same negotiating status as they did the US representatives or why we should not be able to achieve consensus on the remaining - the tail end - 20 % . 
This is a good question . 
I remember using this expression , contrasting 80 % and 20 % . 
It was intended to offer an explanation of the fact that a good deal of the work has already been done because , thanks to the most favoured nation clause , we inherit everything that the previous negotiator has achieved . 
That still leaves 20 % , however , and for a very simple reason . 
In bilateral negotiations , each party tries to focus on the areas where he is least competitive , since it is understood that the rest will be left to the others . 
That is why , in a number of subject areas , the United States have signed a bilateral agreement with the Chinese which is of benefit to us but which , on several points , is not as favourable as if we had negotiated it ourselves . 
That is the first reason . 
What we have to do as far as possible , and I am making every effort to achieve this , is to ensure that what is generally a good deal between the Americans and the Chinese is also a good deal for Europeans . 
So we are left with this remaining 20 % , and it is only 20 % , but , as you know , in negotiations the last few percentage points make all the difference , and this is where we are now . 
There is another , more technical reason , involving some subtle points . 
Although the designations are fairly similar , there may be very different tariff items . 
Let me take the example of spirits . Bourbon and gin are not handled in the same way as whisky and cognac . 
Even though all spirits are ostensibly the same , there are cases where tariff items are not the same . 
These are more technical considerations , but they show that all these aspects must be looked into and negotiated in detail . 
It is not quite over yet . 
I mentioned that I would be going to Beijing during the last week in March in order to attempt to resolve what I feel are real difficulties in these negotiations . 
These concern the political section with regard to which the Chinese authorities have expressed a number of reservations . 
My mandate at present is to attempt to overcome these reservations , and I shall make every effort to do so . 
Thank you very much , Mr Lamy . 
The time allotted to Mr Lamy has fully elapsed . 
Question No 46 will therefore be replied to in writing . 
Questions to Mr Fischler
Since the author is not present , Question No 47 lapses . 
Question No 48 by ( H - 0173 / 00 ) : 
Subject : Cost to agriculture of EU enlargement On the basis of the most recent studies and estimates , what cost will the forthcoming enlargement of the European Union place on agriculture and what will be the impact thereof ? 
Although I have signed this question , as an elected representative , I must say that I am not really its author . 
As the Commissioner can imagine , the question is posed by farmers , in the European countryside , who are wondering , at this stage , whether they , their income and their Community aid , will have to pay the price of enlargement . 
The Commissioner has not been explicit . 
However , his services , the Commission , and some of us MEPs , all know that there are studies and estimates covering this issue . 
The Commissioner is , at times , the master of side - stepping the question , with all the skill of a bullfighter , and failing to provide an answer . 
However , the Commission , if it wants the countryside to support its positions , must clear the fog , and be explicit . 
Therefore , I would ask the Commission , if it does not want to talk of its data and studies - which exist - at least to calm this real fear of the farmers and reply as to whether the cost of enlargement will be met at the expense of the farmers ' income and , furthermore , whether he can guarantee that it will not have an effect on Community aid . 
Mr President , Mrs Izquierdo Rojo , I believe it should not come as news to you that farmers ' revenue does not just consist of subsidies , rather they must earn most of it on the market . 
Therefore the comparison you have just drawn is inappropriate to my mind . 
Secondly , these are two completely different questions . 
In your question , which I answered , you asked what enlargement will cost . 
The question as to whether the Common Agricultural Policy will be amended in the course of enlargement , is an entirely different matter . 
All I can tell you today is that the CAP that was adopted in Berlin for the next seven years , still holds good . 
In addition , a financial perspective was adopted in Berlin , i . e . we decided how much money we could spend . 
You raised the idea of studies : the first studies were made several years back , and we sent these to Parliament . 
We are in the process of carrying out new studies and as soon as we have the results , we will be more than happy to make them available to you . 
Question No 50 by ( H - 0190 / 00 ) : 
Subject : Balance between fisheries agreements in the North and South The Fisheries Council of October 1997 analysed the imbalance between fisheries agreements in the North and South , given that shipowners fishing under agreements with countries of the South are increasingly required to co - finance the agreements , which are free of charge for shipowners in the case of the North . 
It also analysed the fact that agreements with northern countries are under - utilised , despite the interest shown by other Member States in making use of these fishing opportunities . 
The Council therefore asked the Commission to consider decisions allowing quotas to be transferred from one Member State to another and to examine by what means the financial costs of agreements should be ' equitably shared , on a non - discriminatory basis , ' between the Community and shipowners . 
Can the Commission say what studies it has carried out on the possibility of transferring quotas and what the outcome was ? 
What decisions have been taken to balance the financial cost of agreements with the North and South ? 
What is the Commission ' s assessment of the above - mentioned imbalances between these two types of agreement ? 
I have asked a question because I previously consulted a series of decisions taken by the Council of Ministers in 1997 on certain guidelines for fisheries agreements and , as far as I can see , they have not yet been complied with in the European Union . 
I do not wish to have an argument with the Commissioner , but I simply wish to know whether , following the guidelines laid down at the time , on the next renewal of the fisheries agreement with Greenland - where we all know that fishing quotas are not used or are under - used - the fleets which do not have access at the moment to this agreement , will be offered the possibility of using those quotas which are not used or which are under - used . 
I actually referred to this at the beginning of my answer . 
It is certainly a problem , for although the Commission shares your view in principle , Mrs Fraga Estévez , that under - utilised quotas should be transferable , we still lack the necessary arrangements for doing so , because the Member States will not give their consent . 
You mentioned the Council . 
That is why we must overcome this problem . 
But I do not believe that we can solve the problem by paying fees for fishing quotas under a new agreement with Greenland . 
That is no way to solve the problem . 
We must draw a distinction . 
 " Yes " to sharing out non - utilised quotas and a mechanism for doing so , but we should not start introducing licence fees where we do not have to pay for the quotas . 
There is little point in doing that in our view . 
Question No 51 by ( H - 0195 / 00 ) : 
Subject : Compatibility of special export aid with Community law Following the devastation caused by the storm which struck western Europe in December 1999 , the forestry sector is in a particularly serious plight . 
In response to the urgent need for stocks of fallen timber to be disposed of , the French Government has , amongst other measures , decided to grant 50 French francs per tonne in order to subsidise the transportation of timber intended for export to other EU Member States . 
Under the Community ' s competition rules ( and , in particular , the Community preference requirement ) , such aid is rightly prohibited except when it is intended to remedy a situation which may be regarded as exceptional . 
Hence , Article 92 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the EC Treaty states that ' aid to make good the damage caused by natural disasters or exceptional occurrences ' shall be compatible with the common market . 
Is the export aid which has been made available by the French Government compatible with Article 92 ? 
If so , could such aid be extended to cover timber exports to third countries ? 
If so , what are the criteria used by the Commission in order to determine the amount of timber eligible for such aid ? For how long will the aid be available and what is the cost involved ? 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , a few days ago , the Commission had dealings with the French Government over the state aid that France wishes to grant the forestry industry for the purpose of repairing the tremendous damage caused by the storms of December last year . 
The notification from the French Government includes a measure intended to facilitate the transportation of wood from the affected regions . 
However , the notifications make no reference whatsoever to where the wood is destined for , in particular , they do not indicate whether it is to be exported to other Member States or to third countries . 
Understandably , therefore , the Commission has asked the French Government for additional information . 
Since the Commission has not yet received all the additional information it requested , it is not in a position at this stage to give a definite answer to the question as to whether such measures are compatible with Community law . 
I should like to ask the Commissioner to clarify his answer . 
Obviously such aid is already officially provided for in the countries of the Community . 
Instead , the question concerns countries outside the territory of the Community , and may be expressed thus : will we , or will we not , have the possibility of obtaining a derogation in terms of the tonnage , costs or time limits with regard to wood exports , in consideration of the quite exceptional nature of this storm ? 
My question clearly concerned exports outside the common market , outside the Union . 
So as to make it absolutely clear : wood is an industrial commodity under Community law and it stands to reason that export aid , of the kind for which provision is made in agriculture , for example , should not be permitted under any circumstances where the export of wood is concerned . 
We can only apply existing Community law in such cases . 
Provision is made , under Article 87 of this Community law , for damage - and I repeat , damage - which is the direct consequence of a disaster , to be made good . 
In other words , firstly there has to be evidence of damage , and secondly , a direct link has to be established . 
You must also consider the following : if we were to entertain such an idea - after all , the price of wood is not just down in the French forestry industry , for the disaster has brought it down throughout the Community - then every other Member State would be within their rights to come and ask us to approve export aid . 
This would be a clear distortion of the market . 
Question No 52 by ( H - 0202 / 00 ) : 
Subject : Preventive distillation - increasing the quotas The Commission has opened preventive distillation at 10 million hectolitres for the 1999 / 2000 wine year . 
The notification periods have been extended . 
According to available information , the quotas in some Member States have already been exceeded . 
Does the Commission feel able to increase the preventive distillation volume from 10 to 15 million hectolitres and to comply with special requests from certain Member States ( e . g . Germany ) for a higher volume ? 
Yes , Mr President , the Commission received the communications from the Member States with the applications for preventive distillation , on 24 February . 
On the same day , a proposal was submitted to the administrative committee for wine marketing to the effect that the preventive distillation volume should be increased from 10 to 12 million hectolitres . 
In fact this proposal met with the approval of a majority of the management committee . 
That being the case , it will be possible to fulfil all the contracts concluded in the Member States . 
The only exception in this respect is Spain , where , in view of the high number of applications , the take - up rate , if I can put it this way , was 98 % rather than 100 % . 
This meant that Germany ' s original allocation of 148 000 hectolitres could be increased to 468 000 hectolitres . 
That is what the contracts concluded in Germany amounted to in total . 
The amended regulation on preventive distillation will be published in the Official Journal in the near future and will be made retrospective to 24 February . 
Commissioner , in view of the enormous wine harvest , which yielded 140 million hectolitres , and in view of the wine market regulations that are to enter into force this year , has the Commission had any more thoughts - this being the last year when we will have this option - about using obligatory distillation as a means of relieving pressure on the market , or does the Commission not take the view that this would be the subject of a further instrument ? 
Mr President , Mr Langen , firstly , if we can give consideration to all the applications submitted by Germany and nearly all the applications submitted by the other Member States regardless , then this would suggest to me to that the balance has largely been restored to the wine market . 
I take the view - particularly in the light of the fact that we want to achieve a significant reduction in obligatory distillation - that we should not create the impression that we are now back - pedalling . 
Thank you very much , Mr Fischler . 
Questions Nos 53 to 60 will be replied to in writing . 
Questions to Mrs de Palacio
Question No 61 by ( H - 0156 / 00 ) : 
Subject : Reopening of the railway line between Oloron and Canfranc The Commission has told the Spanish press ( 9 February 2000 , EFE press agency ) that it is aware of the need for a railway in the Pyrenees and that the Spanish Government wishes to see the Oloron - Canfranc ( Vallée d ' Aspe ) railway line reopened on the French side . 
The Commission has also confirmed that if the two countries in question agree , it will support the inclusion of the line in the trans - European rail network when the guidelines for that network are next revised . 
However , should the Commission not take the first step and encourage the two Member States concerned to apply the policy of shifting traffic from road to rail and persuade them to seek an agreement on the reopening of the line ? 
What immediate action does the Commission intend to take in order to expedite such an agreement ? 
With regard to your question on the reopening of the railway line between Oloron and Canfranc , we must study the land - based and sea - based alternatives which may help to alleviate the situation of traffic congestion at the two eastern and western extremes of the Pyrenees . 
In fact , these two extremes of the Pyrenees are suffering from saturation since they are the only real land links of any capacity between the Iberian Peninsula and the rest of the European continent . 
We in the Commission have expressed our support for the analysis of a new rail crossing in the central part of the Pyrenees and we have supported various initiatives in the region through the granting of subsidies for different studies analysing the possibilities . 
Furthermore , as you know very well , Spain and France have set up a monitoring centre for traffic in the Pyrenees in order to seek the most suitable solution to the problem facing them . 
In any event , the final decision in this respect is the responsibility of the Member States . 
With regard to the Trans - European Networks we cannot include anything which is not supported by the Member States . 
Meanwhile , I would like to tell you that the Commission will take account of the results of the work of the monitoring centre for traffic in the Pyrenees when reviewing the Trans - European Network and we hope that this review will be ready before August . 
Thank you , Commissioner , but what I would have liked to know is what the Commission is actually doing to ensure , specifically , that the Member States construct a proper railroad in the Somport Valley . Today , the works on the road route are already under way . 
We are right , therefore , to ask questions about the future . 
Personally , I am afraid that provision will be made for a little tourist train just to , perhaps , keep the ecologists happy , and that will be all . 
Studies have been carried out , however , such as the Gretab study , to cite but one , which show that in fact the railroad route via the Somport - Pau - Canfranc - Jaca pass would enable a volume of heavy goods traffic equal to that currently using the Mont Blanc Tunnel . 
What we would in fact like to see , therefore , and what I would have liked to know , following Mr Lamoureux ' s proposals within the Committee on Regional Policy , Transport and Tourism , to the effect that the European Union was really going to prioritise rail , is what do you actually propose to do in real terms in order to ensure that Member States also make this a priority ? 
Mrs Isler Béguin , I would like to say that we are trying to convince the Member States on the basis of the conversations and opinions which they express to us on the different issues and the studies which they send us . 
However , as you well know , we clearly have problems with one of the countries involved with regard to the railway between Oloron and Canfranc . 
There is no doubt that crossing the great mountain ranges of the European Union is a problem . 
For this reason , in 1999 , the Commission subsidised a study observing the flow of through land goods and interchanges in sensitive areas , namely the Pyrenees and the Alps , because they have similar problems . 
Furthermore , we intend to produce a communication on this subject - on the Pyrenees and the Alps - before the end of the year , proposing concrete solutions . 
However , the concrete solutions must clearly be accepted by the Member States . 
The conclusions of this study that we are carrying out will also be taken into account in the revision of the guidelines on the Trans - European Networks and , furthermore , the INTERREG II programme has also financed general studies on the suitability and viability of a future central crossing in the Pyrenees , adapted to heavy goods transport . 
Having said all this , and as I have made very clear in some of my appearances , I believe that we must make an enormous effort to develop goods transport by rail . 
We face a level of demand which is clearly not going to be resolved by means of an increase in roads and we need to study a better use of the rail infrastructures , which is an alternative which is not only much more appropriate from an environmental point of view , but furthermore , they are an alternative which allow us to use some existing infrastructures . 
In other cases , such as the specific case we are talking about , we must put the infrastructures in order , but of course we are prepared to speak to the Member States - and we are doing so - to see if we can persuade the two countries involved to finally accept a project of this type which will allow for a central crossing in the Pyrenees . 
Madam Vice - President of the Commission , I would like to know firstly whether it is true that one country is causing difficulties , secondly , which country this is and thirdly , what type of difficulty it is causing . 
I would also like to know , since you have mentioned it , when the Commission communication on the report on the Alps and the Pyrenees will be made available ? 
Since you have asked , the state which has opposed it until now is France . 
It is clearly the countries of the Iberian peninsular which have the greatest interest here . 
This does not only affect Spain , as the bordering country , but it also affects road traffic to Portugal , given that the Pyrenees pose such an obstacle . 
The communication on sensitive areas basically tackles the issue of how to combine two elements : the environmental demands of the Pyrenees and the Alps and the need to facilitate the movement of goods and people . 
As I have already said , we intend to present the communication before the end of the year , and we also intend to analyse , not only the particular issues affecting the sensitive areas , but also the possible concrete solutions in the field of more suitable infrastructures , funding , use and safety . 
Safety aspects are also important , given the use of extensive tunnels . 
Question No 62 by ( H - 0163 / 00 ) : 
Subject : Blood / alcohol limits for drivers Since 1988 , the Commission has been advocating Community legislation concerning maximum blood alcohol limits for drivers . 
In 1997 , the Commission stated that it was necessary , to reduce the number of road casualties and increase road safety . 
At present , the limits vary widely within Europe , from 0 . 8 in some countries down to 0 . 2 in Sweden . 
Sweden ' s experience has been very encouraging ; a low limit has increased road safety . 
The EU is at present adopting legislation to promote mobility and road safety . 
Why is the Commission reluctant to submit a proposal concerning maximum blood / alcohol limits for drivers , even though this would reduce the number of road deaths ? 
As everyone knows , the excessive consumption of alcohol is the cause of many of our road accidents . 
The European Union has supported , and the Commission considers important , a limitation on general levels of alcohol in the blood , specifically to guarantee that appropriate limits are not exceeded . 
The Commission considers the suitable limit to be , in general , around 0 . 5 mg per mille , which in certain cases , new drivers , for example , could possibly be reduced , at least for a specific time period , and thereby make it even more restrictive . 
I must point out however that , although the Commission intends to express this type of guideline , it will do so by means of a recommendation . 
Given the principle of subsidiarity , we do not consider it appropriate for us to propose a directive setting this limit on alcohol levels , but rather we should produce a recommendation to the Member States on this issue . 
Alcohol constitutes the second greatest danger to health in the EU according to a report on health produced by a high - level working party . 
Alcohol is also the greatest contributory cause of accidents on European roads and a very important contributory cause of the most serious accidents . 
I find it extremely commendable that the Commission too considers that blood alcohol levels must be kept low among drivers , for safety and alcohol do not go together . 
We know from the experience of countries which have low upper limits that this is a way of reducing the number of deaths and serious accidents . 
I should also like to put a following question to the Commissioner . 
Why should it be impossible to issue a directive covering this area when the majority of countries now have an upper limit of 0 . 5 per mille and only a few have a limit in excess of 0 . 5 per mille ? 
As you have pointed out very well , the number of deaths on European roads caused by excessive alcohol consumption has risen to 10 000 . 
Most countries apply a level of 0 . 5 mg . 
The 0 . 8 mg limit is only in force in Ireland , Luxembourg , Italy and the United Kingdom , and only Sweden has a limit below 0 . 5 mg . 
We are going to present a communication on road safety , which you in this Parliament will receive shortly , and recommend a maximum limit of 0 . 5 mg . 
We consider that legislation should be reserved for cases where it is absolutely necessary to legislate . 
Since there are very few states with a limit greater than 0 . 5 mg , we consider that his recommendation will be sufficient to persuade the relevant states to harmonise their own laws . 
We believe that subsidiarity and the recommendation will be sufficient for the alcohol level in the various states to be set at 0 . 5 mg or less than 0 . 5 mg . 
As we are talking about blood - alcohol levels I wonder if the Commissioner , in her recommendation is also going to be looking at the broader issue of drugs ? 
This is an important issue that is often left out when we are talking about driving . 
Will this ever be put into the recommendation ? 
The problem is obviously that drugs produce states which clearly limit drivers ' response capacities . 
The problem with drugs is that , while in some countries their consumption is subject to criminal prosecution , in others it is not and , therefore , given this differing treatment , we cannot , at least for the moment , make any progress in this field . 
However , this issue worries me , as it worries you , and I would like to see whether , within the new fields of action and specifically within the new areas of communitised policies , we can make more progress in this respect . 
Lastly , I must add that , in the case of drugs , control is more difficult , since the control systems are not so automatic nor so immediate as they are in the case of alcohol levels . 
Question No 63 by ( H - 0164 / 00 ) : 
Subject : Verona - Munich railway link The project for a new Verona - Munich through railway line has been under discussion for years . 
Traffic on the Verona - Munich route is increasing , yet only one third of the capacity of the existing railway line is being used . 
The way to reduce the air and noise pollution caused by long - distance lorries would be to switch all heavy through traffic from road to rail . 
To achieve this , motorway tolls for goods vehicles must be increased and a fast and efficient railway line must be provided . 
If a new line is built , care must be taken to select the option that has the least damaging impact on the environment . 
As the infrastructure is supposed to last for hundreds of years , it is essential to find the best solution . 
It appears that the Commission favours the Brenner base tunnel project . 
Why does the Commission not intend to reconsider the alternative ATT3 project put forward by the engineers Trojer and Kauer ? 
Has the Commission studied the potential environmental impact of the various projects for a Verona - Munich rail link ? 
Can the Commission finance a further study of the question of the transport of goods via the Brenner ? 
The project for a railway line between Munich and Verona , agreed by the Italian , Austrian and German Governments in 1994 , is included in the Trans - European Transport Network and foresees the construction of a high speed network with combined goods transport . 
In principle , it largely follows the route of the current conventional line . 
The proposal of the ATT 3 project , which is well known to the Commission , deviates from the route established in the guidelines of the Trans - European Network . 
I must say that the preparatory and construction measures have always been based on the agreed lines , and that to deviate from that initial approach would cause a significant delay in the development of the project itself . 
As well as the ATT 3 proposal , which is of interest to the honourable Member , the Commission has received another series of alternative proposals and considers , based on technical , economic and environmental evaluations by the Member States involved , that the so - called base tunnel , work on which is under way , offers a series of advantages when compared to other alternative routes . 
I must also say that a significant proportion of the economic aid already granted is directly related to the environmental aspects of the project , and that we are going to continue to support the Brenner project economically and especially the technical design of the section of the base tunnel which is about to be started . 
Obviously , in any of these activities , the environmental impact , bearing in mind that this is a sensitive area , as I pointed out a moment ago when speaking of the Pyrenees problem , is one of the key elements in determining the specific project and in monitoring the carrying out of that project . 
Mr President , one thing I would just ask you to bear in mind about this , is that owing to the noise pollution , a high - speed train has quite an impact along those stretches of the track that do not run under the mountain of course , and I would ask the Commissioner to consider this : why should it not be possible to make the breakthrough we need , and which will solve the problem between Munich and Verona in the long - term , with something along the lines of the Brenner base tunnel ? 
After all , it would not be too difficult to transfer all the through heavy goods traffic to rail and bring it through the mountain , thereby solving the problem once and for all . 
All we need is a ban on transiting heavy goods traffic . 
This would relieve pressure on the Brenner motorway , which is under great strain and also causing a few problems of a socio - political nature , and would also free it up for private vehicles and local heavy goods traffic . 
Amongst other things , in order to ban heavy transport , the first thing we need is an alternative route for heavy transport . 
The truth is that there is currently no such alternative . 
Therefore , the first thing we have to do is suitably develop the corresponding routes . 
Of course , all of this is linked to our society and its development . 
However , I believe that we cannot limit that development ; which does not mean that we do not have to make every possible effort to ensure that this development respects the environment as far as possible , with the least possible effect on that environment , especially in sensitive areas such as the Alps and the Pyrenees . 
Mr President , I would expressly like to thank the Commissioner for the great sensitivity she has shown so far in her handling of the Brenner traffic and Brenner base tunnel issues , and I particularly appreciate the fact that mention has repeatedly been made of the need to give special consideration to the environmental implications . 
I would point out that the alternative project ATT3 - and I would like to thank Commissioner Kinnock and the chairman , Mr Coleman , for their efforts here - has been examined closely and in great detail by the Commission over the past two years , and I have also received a written report on this . 
I would just like to add that the question from Mr Messner goes like this :  " in the event that a new installation is to be built , the project that is the most and least environmentally friendly is to be examined "  . 
It is completely beyond me as to why anyone should ask the Commission to make sure that something is as harmful to the environment as it possibly could be . 
This is all about people living in a sensitive area who must be protected . 
The fact that this request came from the Greens makes it all the more baffling , and it should be thrown out for this reason . 
The Brenner project is one of 14 projects involving trans - European transport connections and , of course , the Commission will continue to support this project , although , at the end of the day , it is the Member States which must develop it . 
Thank you very much , Commissioner . 
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Commission has elapsed , Questions Nos 64 to 114 will be replied to in writing . 
That concludes Questions to the Commission . 
 ( The sitting was suspended at 7 . 25 p . m . and resumed at 9 . 00 p . m . ) 
Eco - label
The next item is the recommendation for second reading on behalf of the Committee on Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy , on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council regulation on a revised Community eco - label award scheme ( C5 - 0223 / 1999 - 1996 / 0312 ( COD ) ) . 
Mr President , as you just said , this is the second reading for the directive on the awarding of the eco - label . 
The European eco - label is , it has to be said , a product of the internal market . 
Its function , partly in response to the increasing flow of products across borders , is to label products and services which have a high level of environmental compatibility . 
Its function , on the one hand , is to provide information to consumers from one country to the next and , on the other , to increase awareness within industry and among citizens to recognise and promote environmental issues . 
And this is of major importance when it comes to the daily shopping trip . 
I am of the opinion that the meaningfulness of a European label which is tailored to the European internal market is beyond dispute . 
However , it is often a long road from the conception of a good idea to its practical implementation . 
This is precisely the case with the eco - label whose main claim to fame at present is , unfortunately , its virtual anonymity in most States . 
I think that only a very small minority of citizens have ever actually seen it and for this reason my report has paid greatest attention to the wholly inadequate preparations for the label . 
What are the weaknesses in the current eco - label regulation which have given rise to today ' s unsatisfactory situation ? 
I think that a key problem lies in the cost structure of the label . 
The test procedures which companies and their products must go through in order to obtain the label are long and costly . 
We are therefore advocating that the stipulation of testing requirements should look to keep test costs to an absolute minimum , although this must obviously not be misinterpreted as a qualitative watering down of testing requirements . 
As well as the cost of test procedures , the on - going fees which must be paid to the European eco - label system are also highly significant . 
Here , too , we envisage a reduction in costs for SMEs , firms in developing countries and enterprises involved in other aspects of European or international environmental legislation . 
In this regard , I should cite , for example , EMAS and ISO 14001 . 
In addition to a reduction in costs for certain enterprises , the report also envisages a maximum fee . 
In this we are following the example of almost all the national labelling systems , which also have this ceiling . 
The purpose of this approach is to make the labelling system equally attractive to large consumer goods manufacturers and service providers . 
Let me make something perfectly clear at this point : this is not a present to the large multinationals , as is being mooted in some quarters , but an important step towards the label exerting a wide influence in the long term . 
We must also clearly understand that without a certain amount of financial impetus for the European label we will not make any headway . 
In my opinion , we should take on the responsibility for this financing . 
Another important point in this second reading is the regulation of the relationship between the national eco - label and the European equivalent . 
At first reading we were still advocating the gradual abolition of national labels in favour of the European eco - label ; it is not without good reason that we have abandoned this position . 
In some States national labels are well established and enjoy public recognition . 
This is the case , for example , as regards the Nordic Swan in Scandinavia and the Blue Angel in Germany . 
In my estimation it would be nonsensical and contrary to the spirit of subsidiarity to abolish these proven labels in favour of an as yet unestablished European label . 
Our approach should be different . 
We must ensure that the co - existence of national and European labels is coordinated and in this regard the working plan provided for in the common position , which we have supplemented in various respects , but which I think will meet with approval , is extremely important . 
The eco - label regulation treads the fine line between economic and ecological interests , one group wanting above all to enforce stringent environmental requirements , the other with an eye on the marketing aspect of the label . 
Both groups , however , have one thing in common : they want the eco - label to succeed . 
I believe that the regulation which we are considering today has found a solid compromise between the interests of all the groups involved and I am convinced that the constructive proposals of our House will also be acceptable to the Council and make for a highly successful European eco - label . 
Mr President , Commissioner , a speaker in this House yesterday expressed the view that economic globalisation is not an incontrovertible necessity but the evil outworking of a few multinationals . 
Whilst I found this observation quite persuasive , it is , of course , dangerous and misleading because nothing which we are currently doing in Europe in terms of the economy or the environment can be seen in isolation from potential global developments . 
And it goes without saying that this also applies to the awarding of an environmental label in the European Union . 
Take the failed WTO negotiations in Seattle , which have opened our eyes as to the difficulty Europe faces in making itself heard by third countries when it comes to its progressive social and environmental standards . 
If we re - commit today to awarding a European environmental label , we must also consider that this will send a clear signal to third countries that it will be present on our products in developing countries and , of course , that others can and will follow suit . 
