Mr President , we have not yet given up on the goal of a common European label , at least that is my interpretation of the common position . 
The eco - label may have suffered thus far from a lack of acceptance , but a working plan which allows for coordination with the national labels can only increase acceptance . 
Our proposal in committee to automatically award the eco - label to products and services which already carry national labels and which satisfy the requirements of the European label did not , unfortunately , achieve a majority . 
It would have afforded the opportunity to disseminate the European label even more quickly and effectively . 
An important issue is the involvement of non - governmental organisations and associations . 
It is essential that expert opinion and protection of consumer interests have some influence on the awarding process . 
This can only benefit the status and merit of what the label stands for in terms of ecology and the consumer . 
The aim of our amendments is to increase the participation of associations . 
There is much to be said on the question of fees . 
We need to introduce a system which covers the costs and it is therefore not right at this stage to fix maximum fees , which would seem premature until such time as we know the actual costs involved . 
In this regard I would disagree with Mr Schnellhardt because it seems to me that even though the well - known national labels do give rise to costs , suppliers are still happy to acquire them . 
It is right , however , that there should be a cost reduction for SMEs and for products from developing countries . 
Overall , we must succeed in establishing the European label in Member States which do not have their own label . 
If the common label has a function at present , it is that of filling the environmental label gaps in Europe . 
The path which we are taking is the correct one , but a recognised common European label is not yet in sight and a major effort is required in this area . 
Mr President , the present proposal reinforces , improves upon and tightens up on the voluntary eco - labelling system which has existed in the EU since 1992 and which has not , unfortunately , been as successful as had been hoped . 
We know from the Nordic Swan and the German Blue Angel that the eco - labelling of products is an extremely significant and powerful tool for getting consumers to change their purchasing behaviour and to shop in an environmentally friendly way . 
That is , of course , what we all want , namely to be able to shop in an environmentally friendly way and so influence producers and the development of society in ways which favour ecologically more sustainable products and services . 
I think that the Council ' s position is fairly commendable , and I am also satisfied with the amendments from the committee and from Mr Schnellhardt . 
I consider , however , that the proposal needs to be reinforced in certain ways , above all when it comes to the role played by consumer and environmental groups and the co - existence of different eco - labelling systems . 
Those who argue the case for having only the one eco - labelling system are making a big mistake , I believe . 
I am totally convinced that , wherever there are well - functioning eco - labelling systems , it will be possible also to introduce the EU flower that much more easily and more quickly . 
It is about getting the consumer to look for and to choose eco - labelled products . 
Once purchasing behaviour has been altered , it is extremely simple . 
The key to success lies , to a very large degree , in the credibility of the environmental and consumer groups and in the good opinion in which these are held . 
If these groups are involved in the right way , eco - labelling will also develop very much more quickly . 
If you would allow me to make a point of order . . . 
Mr President , the proposal we are now debating for a revised Community programme for awarding the eco - label has been significantly amended since the Commission ' s original proposal . 
It has also been altered a great deal since its first reading by the European Parliament . 
Happily , all these changes are , on the whole , improvements . 
Those of us in the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left believe that we have obtained a relatively good hearing for the views we already held at the first reading . 
For us , the following principles were important when we assessed the proposal in the course of the journey . First of all , this common eco - label should not replace or get in the way of national eco - labels which are , in fact , at present functioning significantly better than the EU flower symbol when one considers both the number of labelled products and the extent to which consumers are familiar with the various labels . 
It is therefore especially important that the idea of prohibiting national eco - labels has been abandoned . 
I also believe it is important to realise that there is nothing to prevent the existence of parallel eco - labels . 
In Scandinavia , which perhaps has what is at present the most efficient eco - labelling system , there are now already a number of eco - labels complementing , and operating fairly well alongside , each other . 
Secondly , we want the environmental movement to have a decisive influence over both the awarding of labels and the criteria for receiving them . 
Our experience shows that the labels would , in that way , be given greater credibility . 
Moreover , this system functions excellently where it has been introduced . 
We are therefore especially pleased that the idea of a more commercial form of organisation has been abandoned . 
I also think it is good that the idea of a graded eco - label has been done away with . 
It is easier just to have the picture of a flower . 
A graded system , like the one that existed originally , would probably cause more hassle than it would be worth in terms of additional information provided . 
We are also pleased that the proposal is to cover the service sector , too . 
All in all , we think that the common position and the amendments which have been submitted , including the amendments from the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left , make this into quite a good report . 
Mr President , whilst recently at my sister - in - law ' s house , I noticed that she had a container of " eco - friendly " washing - up liquid . 
When I congratulated her on this , she looked rather guilty and admitted that the green bottle now contained normal detergent , as the alternative product was not only more expensive but needed four times as much and even then it did not get the dishes clean ; by refilling the container , she could both do the washing up effectively and impress eco - warrior friends . 
The moral of this story is , of course , that to compete in the mainstream market , eco - products must give a performance close to their alternatives . 
Only then can these products move out of the niche market they already have and into the mainstream . 
The eco - label should not be associated with mediocrity . 
The German Blue Angel and the Nordic Swan have led the way in eco - labelling . 
To scrap these successful schemes now would be to throw away the baby with the bath water . 
In the long term , I can see the merits of the single European eco - label , but this must not be imposed on those with existing schemes . 
A single scheme has advantages for business : for example , only one registration fee and inspection , standardised packaging , and advantages for consumers who will not be confused by a plethora of labels . 
Eco - labelling is moving on from forest products and detergents to computers and household appliances , but why stop there ? 
Services such as tourism and clean taxes could register . 
In addition , groups of similar small business could possibly cooperate and register together . 
In the United Kingdom , we have a flourishing ethical financial services sector , offering savings and pensions which invest from a green perspective . 
These should not only qualify for an eco - label , but be allowed to sell their products without hindrance throughout the EU in a single financial services market . 
Mr President , first of all , I wish , of course , to thank the European Parliament ' s Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy , in particular the two rapporteurs , Mr Schnellhardt and Mr Poggiolini , for the very constructive work which has been carried out in reviewing the regulation on eco - labelling . 
The proposal for a revised Community programme for awarding the eco - label is mainly aimed at making the programme more effective and more open and at improving the methods used . 
It ought to make the programme more attractive to manufacturers , distributors and consumers . 
In particular , the proposal accords greater responsibility to the bodies responsible for eco - labelling and to various interest groups when it comes to establishing ecological criteria . 
The Commission considers that these objectives will be fulfilled thanks to cooperation with , and interest on the part of , the European Parliament and the Council . 
I believe that the relationship between the Community ' s eco - labelling programme and the national eco - labelling programmes is better and more clearly defined in the current proposal . 
The proposal also reinforces the interested parties ' role and participation . 
This applies , in particular , to various interest groups and to the environmental bodies dedicated to eco - labelling . 
Their participation is crucial if the present voluntary instrument is to be favoured and made more widely available in the correct way . 
It is one of the few European instruments which will , in fact , be able to play a key role in supporting sustainable consumption . 
With regard to the amendments tabled by the European Parliament , the Commission considers that these have helped improve the exposition of the regulation . 
With regard to Amendments Nos 1 , 4 and 8 , which propose active participation on the part of environmental and consumer organisations , the Commission shares the view that their support and participation is crucial if eco - labelling is to be balanced and credible . 
We are therefore able to accept these amendments . 
With regard to Amendments Nos 2 , 3 and 7 , which relate to certain aspects of cooperation and coordination with national eco - labelling programmes , the Commission is convinced that common supporting activities are important , particularly with a view to making the Community ' s eco - labelling better known . 
We are therefore able to approve these amendments , too . 
Amendment No 5 proposes four ways of making the fee structure more flexible and easier for those who apply to be accepted . 
The Commission supports this overarching objective . 
After all , eco - labelling is , of course , voluntary , and the fees ought not to be so high that those who make the most effort in the interests of the environment are prevented from applying for the eco - label . 
Amendment No 6 concerns fee reductions for small and medium - sized companies , as well as developing countries , and emphasises that these should be appreciable . 
The Commission is able to support this amendment , too . 
To summarise , the Commission is therefore able to approve all the amendments . 
Mr President , I wanted earlier on , as I concluded my previous speech , to make a point of order to which I should like to alert the President and the Bureau . 
Before the vote tomorrow , it needs to be made clear that certain amendments to the present report have not been translated . 
They are only to be found in English . 
This applies , for example , to Amendments 7 and 8 . These are only available in English , which is totally unacceptable . 
If we are to be able to vote on this report , these amendments need at least to be read out before they are voted on . 
That was the first point . 
The second concerns , for example , the work programme for environmental strategy . . . 
 ( The President cut the speaker off ) 
Thank you very much for pointing out the position regarding amendments . 
The services are looking at this and I hope that they will be ready in time for tomorrow . 
We cannot allow the debate to continue because we are running out of time . 
Thank you , Commissioner , for your contribution . 
That concludes the debate . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon . 
Incineration of waste
The next item is the recommendation for a second reading on behalf of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on the incineration of waste ( C5 - 0274 / 1999 - 1998 / 0289 ( COD ) ) . 
On Amendments Nos 36 and 37 , which have been distributed , I am shown as the joint mover of the motion . 
I discovered this yesterday evening and notified DG1 of the fact this morning . 
DG1 acknowledged that a mistake had been made by the translation service . 
I then asked for this to be corrected . 
DG1 refused , saying that they did not have the time . 
I should like to say that I think this is completely unacceptable . 
They have had more than 12 hours in which to correct the amendments concerned . 
I feel very put out that these have been made publicly available with wrong information about who the movers of the motion are . 
It is a question , then , of Amendments Nos 36 and 37 , of which I am not the joint mover of the motion . 
Thank you very much for pointing that out . 
We will try and make sure it is corrected by tomorrow . 
Mr President , Commissioner , first of all , I would like to thank the Members for their fruitful cooperation . 
As a result of this , we have been able to table various amendments in a joint effort and reach agreement on a number of issues . 
This is illustrated by the compromise we reached on the scope of the directive . 
I would also like to thank the European Commission for providing the information and technical advice , which was extremely helpful . 
In a civilised society , it is to be expected that waste should be processed in an effective and environmentally responsible manner . 
In the European Community , this will increasingly be done by incinerating waste and recycling energy . 
This process will obviously need to be closely monitored for emissions of dangerous substances . 
Once we have reached a point where , in order to counter the adverse effects on the environment , dangerous and organic waste , in particular , is no longer dumped , incineration should then inevitably deliver environmental benefits . 
By tightening up emission standards , a balance was struck at first reading between what is viable over a period of about five to seven years and what is necessary from an environmental point of view . 
The emission values currently proposed by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection are a reasonable compromise . 
It should , however , be noted that stricter requirements are already in place in a number of Member States . 
It is one thing to prescribe sound environmental standards but quite another to comply with these . 
Compliance requires adequate control which , in turn , requires proper monitoring . 
Just imagine a situation in which we laid down excellent standards for emissions of dangerous substances such as dioxins but , on the other hand , left the way open for exemptions from all kinds of monitoring obligations . 
We would then run the risk of not , on balance , making any progress , and the quality of air would not improve . 
In addition , we also need to avoid a situation where it becomes clear there are long - term health risks for a reason which may not be immediately obvious , namely that the emission of harmful substances is not measured . 
We cannot justify the occurrence of illnesses , such as cancer or blood diseases , which we have not prevented because there was no obligation to measure the emission of harmful substances by incineration plants . 
Mr Florenz was among those who were right to point out that clear measuring regulations are vital . 
I expect , therefore , that we will be joining forces in order to put a sound monitoring process in place . 
As far as the scope of the directive is concerned , I am pleased to say that , thanks to good mutual cooperation , we have reached an acceptable wording . 
However , we need to bear in mind that , with this draft , we have deviated a long way from the first reading , in view of the fact that only untreated timber was then regarded as an acceptable exception . 
Regarding the definition of coincineration plant , it is unfortunate that we were unable to reach agreement on this beforehand . 
After many discussions involving various Members and the European Commission , a simple solution , which may well be acceptable , has been found in the form of Amendment No 43 . 
If waste were used as a replacement raw material , such as in the recycling of glass , the relevant process would fall outside the scope of the directive . 
If , on the other hand , only part of the waste were to be used as a replacement raw material , then this process would fall within the directive ' s scope . 
As for the recycling of energy , I would like to point out that , in November of last year , the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the integration of environmental concerns into energy policy , in which it was requested that special attention be given to the application and development of the best methods for energy recycling . 
Consequently , the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection has made a recommendation that energy recycling by means of combined electricity / heat production should also apply to the incineration of waste . 
The Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection has asked for ammonia levels to be measured . 
It is wrong , however , that the standards for ammonia should not apply to all installations . 
Accordingly , I have , for reasons of consistency , proposed an ammonia standard for cement kilns and for ordinary waste incinerators . 
As far as the continuous sampling of dioxins is concerned , this appears to be quite feasible . 
Belgium has started to use such a measuring technique in the wake of its dioxin crisis . 
A cumulative sample is taken for a one - month period . 
After this period , this sample is measured and the result gives a good indication of the levels of dioxin emitted during that month . 
Needless to say , this is a more effective monitoring method than the random measurement method used twice a year . 
According to experts , the costs are not higher since the measurement of cumulative samples is far cheaper . 
As such , the cost of the equipment for continuous sampling is recouped within the space of a few years . 
At first reading , considerable improvements were made to the Commission proposal thanks to a great deal of support . 
It was at that stage that expectations were raised amongst the citizens . 
I strongly urge MEPs to meet these expectations . 
A consistent approach taken by the European Parliament will benefit our credibility amongst the citizens , especially those citizens living in the vicinity of plants which incinerate or co - incinerate waste . 
Mr President , Commissioner , we feel that this directive is far from satisfactory because it involves a combination of two texts , one on the incineration of dangerous waste and the other on the incineration of non - dangerous waste . 
This raises problems for us at several phases of the incineration process : the reception , processing and handling of the waste . 
One might well ask what was the point of combining these two matters . 
We can find the answer in Mr Blokland ' s report , which is violently opposed to the coincineration industry . 
Paradoxically , however , by the same token , the rapporteur is in favour of mixing dangerous and non - dangerous waste . 
What is the advantage of this for the environment ? 
Our Group has no wish to favour either type of industry , since both are extremely useful to waste management in Europe . 
The practices of each Member State must be taken into consideration , while maintaining the existing industrial balance and investigating how the environment can be better protected . 
This is what the common position proposes . 
Priority must be given to the emission limits for the most harmful substances , i . e . NOx , dioxins and furanes . 
Moreover , the common position suggests an NOx limit value for the incineration of dangerous waste for the year 2007 . 
Such a thing does not yet currently exist . 
As regards dioxins and furanes , the limit values have now been made mandatory for all types of waste . 
Until now , they applied only to non - dangerous waste . 
It is therefore unfortunate that the Blokland report is putting unrealistic solutions forward when it is known that a good many directives on waste management are not yet applied or are not properly applied by Member States . 
If one wishes to go too far , one becomes counter - productive . 
It is completely unrealistic to wish to review the limit values of this directive every three years , if one considers the considerable investment that the industry would have to make . 
What the industry needs is legal certainty and reasonable time periods . 
The real problem is that in Europe we do not have a proper definition of what waste is , resulting in ongoing confusion when we have to revise a text on waste or to present new proposals . 
Commissioner , waste management in Europe must undergo complete reform as a matter of urgency . 
Mr President , I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Blokland on this report . 
We know that waste incineration is a very difficult and highly technical area , but I think that a creditable piece of work has been done in connection with this report . 
Unlike Mrs Grossetête , I think that the common position and Mr Blokland ' s report will , as a matter of fact , make a significant environmental contribution in connection with waste incineration , whether we are talking about hazardous or non - hazardous waste . 
I believe that we are , in this way , obtaining a good tool for preventing and limiting environmental damage in connection with waste incineration and for preventing and limiting the associated risks to human health . 
Moreover , there are also some good resources which are being put to use . 
I shall certainly support the demand that proper waste planning be carried out , with waste being duly sorted , so that we have a situation in which waste incineration is linked to the EU ' s combined waste legislation , with the incineration problem correctly placed in the waste hierarchy . 
I also think it is good that we should now be told very precisely which plants are covered by these rules and also which types of waste are thus exempt from them . 
Regarding the very difficult question of defining coincineration plant , including cement factories - in connection with the handling of which there has been some quite aggressive lobbying - I want to say that I think we can support Amendment No 43 , which I think defines the common position well . 
Finally , there is the absolutely crucial point about establishing emission limits in relation to air and water - whether we are talking about heavy metals or dust , ammonia , dioxin , sulphur dioxide or other hazardous substances . 
I think that defensible levels have been identified in this connection , and a reasonable balance has been struck between incineration plants proper and the combined plants . 
It is a balance that I hope will be maintained , including during the vote tomorrow here in the plenary sitting . 
Again in contrast to Mrs Grossetête , I want , moreover , to say that the levels set here for emissions are realistic . 
They are technologically feasible and they are , in actual fact , already being applied in a number of the Member States . 
The existing plants which do not at present fulfil the requirements are also to be given a good few years in which to be adapted to the new requirements laid down here . 
I hope therefore that , by means of the vote tomorrow , we can make our contribution to solving the health and environmental problems involved in waste incineration so that the enormous quantities of waste which we produce every single day do not cause more serious health problems or greater damage to the environment than is absolutely necessary . 
Mr President , Mr Blokland has carried out an enormous task . 
This subject is incredibly involved . 
Moreover , the lobbyists have been something else . 
I should never have believed that there were so many of them concerned about waste in Europe . 
You might have thought it was gold rather than waste they were talking about . 
One never knows , but it perhaps bodes well for the future that a recycling industry is developing which possesses such competence and power in terms of financial resources and personnel . 
Obviously , the EU must create a sustainable system for protecting air , land and water . 
This is a common commitment and a common responsibility . 
It clearly ought , too , to be regulated at European Union level . 
But is this the right level at which to produce such very detailed technical descriptions as this Directive is attempting to produce ? 
Ought it not , rather , to be the case that decisions should be made on permitted emission levels for various substances , on the measurement systems and on how the measurements are to be carried out and that , subsequently , the principle of subsidiarity should be applied ? 
It is true that , when it comes to the ways in which waste is dealt with and is co - incinerated using large quantities of biomass fuels , there are really quite enormous differences between northern Scandinavia ( where the transport routes are also long ) and the densely populated areas of Central Europe where the problem is , quite literally , more one of waste incineration and of refuse collection and disposal than of , for example , generating combined power and heat . 
I should like us at some point , but not now , to debate the opportunities for creating framework legislation in this area . 
Mr President , I would also like to congratulate Mr Blokland on this report which will set Europe - wide standards for incineration , including for the first time emission standards for dioxins and furanes ; this should lead to more competition between different methods of waste disposal , and as a result help bring to an end the transport of hazardous waste across Europe in search of the cheapest waste operators . 
With the predicted increase in incineration , it is vital that overall EU legislation on waste disposal and on air quality is consistent and comprehensive . 
We must look at the whole hierarchy . 
Incineration may increase as stricter controls are put on landfill , but it does not go hand in hand with recycling and environmentally friendly waste - disposal methods . 
Building new incinerators is a costly and long - term venture which in turn has to have a long - term return for the investors , so it would be in their interests for waste to continue to be burned . 
This means that there is a danger of over capacity which will lead to encouraging incineration for reasons of profit , rather than encouraging the reduction , recycling and safe treatment of waste , which is our goal . 
This Parliament must protect the health and quality of life of the people that we represent . 
There is no safe threshold for dioxin emissions and more research is being done on the effects of micro - particles on human health and the environment . 
So we have to ensure that there is frequent testing and monitoring , that regular and detailed information is made available to the public , and that real action is taken against breaches of the rules . 
Measuring emissions twice a year may give an early indication of what is happening in an incineration plant and in the air that the local community is breathing . 
Measuring once every two years would not do that . 
So we must set the highest possible standards and not make exceptions which will weaken this very important legislation . 
Mr President , you cannot dispose of waste by dumping it in the sea , shooting it into space , or by simply incinerating it . 
It has a habit of reappearing , often in a more harmful form . 
Incineration can be the cause of illnesses , air pollution , climatic change and a rise in the sea level . 
A great deal of waste is incinerated these days , but not , in fact , by these expensive installations equipped with flue - gas cleaning devices . 
These installations are not being brought up to date . 
In fact , they are closed down if it appears that it is cheaper to co - incinerate waste in the cement industry and in electricity plants . 
This is why it is important that incineration should cost the same across the board and meet the same high environmental requirements . 
It is a fact that left and right do not often see eye to eye on many issues - rightly and understandably so - both within and outside this Parliament , as they represent opposing interests and visions of groups in our society . 
This issue , however , should form an exception . 
Anyone , rich or poor , must be able to breathe , remain healthy and keep their feet dry . 
Only a reckless short - term vision and the pursuit of quick profits can explain why attempts are still being made to weaken this directive . 
Amendments of this kind reduce the directive to rules for those who would poison us and threaten the world with another flood . 
The Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left therefore supports the proposals made by Mr Blokland and hopes that destructive amendments will be withdrawn or rejected . 
Mr President , waste management is now central to achieving the highest standards of environmental protection . 
Regrettably , our consumer society is contributing to an increasing volume of domestic waste and there is also growing concern in relation to industrial waste . 
Thankfully there is now an awareness among citizens of the importance of protecting the natural environment , and in my view the social and economic climate is conducive to achieving this objective . 
In previous debates I referred to the need to reduce waste : here the manufacturers of food and consumer goods have an important role to play , particularly in relation to packaging in its various forms and the importance of using products compatible with recycling , which is of course my preferred option . 
We are all conscious of the need to reduce the volume of waste now disposed of in landfill sites and every effort must be made to find more environmentally friendly alternatives . 
In my view , we will not be able in the foreseeable future to totally eliminate landfill sites but we must not only reduce , on an ongoing basis , the volume of material going to landfill but must also be more selective as regards the materials disposed of . 
While incineration is getting a lot of adverse publicity , and recent planning decisions in Ireland have certainly raised the crucial question of the location of incinerators , it is difficult to envisage a complete programme of waste disposal without incineration , particularly in relation to toxic waste , and in this regard consideration must be given to finding locations where the facility will not impact badly on the natural environment . 
Finally , Mr President , it is obvious we need further informed debates in helping to allay the citizens ' concern on the health aspect of incineration , a matter which has been addressed through extensive research carried out in various Member States and through the experience gained in the many state - of - the - art facilities now in operation throughout Europe . 
Mr President , Commissioner , firstly I would like to thank the rapporteur for his work . 
The recommendation for second reading before us is an extremely important legislative resolution , not just for the environment but also for the economy of the European Union . 
This can be seen from the many letters which we receive from environmental associations and from the economic sector , not least of course the cement industry , but also many others such as the wood - processing industry , the paper industry , the metalworking industry and so on . I think that we must regard both sets of arguments as important , those of the environmental associations and also those of industry , because industry has also put forward arguments from a genuinely environmental viewpoint and not just from an economic viewpoint . 
We should treat this seriously . 
Not all amendments which are probably well intentioned from the environmental viewpoint are necessarily an improvement on the current situation . 
I think this can be seen from some of the amendments which were put forward in committee with regard to coincineration and which now reappear as amendments in plenary . 
We cannot in any way guarantee that in restricting coincineration we will actually achieve what we want environmentally . 
Above all we want to save fossil fuels . 
If we set up the hurdles wrong here , then we will not achieve the right environmental objective . 
For this reason , our Group rejects the amendments which have been resubmitted by Mr Blokland , the Greens and others . 
However , I think that there are still some amendments decided on in committee which we can support in good conscience in order to improve the common position . 
For example , I tabled a motion in the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy relating to NOx emitted during coincineration which , at least for new installations , is somewhat more ambitious than the Council ' s proposals . 
I think it is realistic and , as the industry in question is saying the same , albeit with its hand in front of its mouth , we should be altogether more positive . 
I think , therefore , that we are on the right track in accepting much of what has been decided in the committee , but certainly nothing which goes any further . 
Mr President , unusually tonight I am not speaking on behalf of the Socialist Group , largely because I have some particularly strong views about this directive . 
I do believe that Mr Blokland has produced the wrong report at the wrong time for the wrong reasons . 
It is not so long ago that we addressed this issue and produced a set of rules that were appropriate to the situation , and which Mr Blokland was seen to be happy with at the time and did not complain about . 
Given a task to do , Mr Blokland has produced a new and revised report that has certainly exceeded anything that we have done before . 
We cannot say that it is all wrong . 
Indeed there are many sensible proposals put forward in areas where the technology makes it possible to advance . 
But quite frankly we cannot expect , having already given industry one set of rules to implement only a year or two ago , to hand them a completely new set of rules so quickly . 
We have to expect that it will take time to implement this report . 
Mr Blokland has also exceeded in many ways the brief he was given . 
In particular , the scope of this proposal goes far further than previous directives and brings into its legislative fold a great many processes which require separate legislation , and need to be separately regulated because they are inherently different from the simple process of combustion . 
If one is being kind to this directive one could describe it as being good in parts , like the curate ' s egg . 
Unfortunately , this is going to give environment policy a bad name . 
We should not be constantly re - regulating incinerators . We should be seeking ways to avoid incineration in the first place . 
Parliament ' s objective in waste management strategy is not to constantly tighten rules on existing incinerating plant , it is to change the role of waste management , to change the type of waste management that we do . 
We would be much better concentrating our efforts in the next few years on recycling , re - use and other methods of reducing the waste heap . 
If we do not , we will very soon find ourselves back with this problem again . 
Mr President , I certainly agree with Mr Bowe ' s final summary . 
Although the common position places firm controls on permitted emissions from waste incinerators , I know that whenever proposals to build such an incinerator are made in my country , people rise in protest , they distrust the operator ' s claims and I have a degree of sympathy with them . 
So I and many of my colleagues will be backing most of Mr Blokland ' s amendments because we want the highest possible standards . 
I have no problem at all if these prove technically difficult to achieve - no problem , because Britain has a shameful record of having the lowest household waste recycling in Europe and great room for improvement . 
Many of us believe that any government in our country will encourage the construction of waste incinerators as an alternative to encouraging the alternatives . 
It would be a case of " throw it on the furnace " and putting it out of sight and out of mind which to my mind is a false approach . 
We have to concentrate on reducing waste , recycling what is left and leaving incinerators as a last resort . 
Mr President , I too would like to thank Mr Blokland for his report which strives to improve the Commission ' s proposal , and the authors of the other amendments which do so as well . 
But incineration has to be considered as a last resort and - as has been said already - waste reduction , re - use and recycling are the main things we should be striving for . 
I just wonder about Mr Bowe ' s statement about the need to reduce , recycle and re - use waste . 
Will his position remain the same when he is debating the packaging directive ? 
It will be interesting to see if he sticks to his principles there . 
The only thing incineration does , as Mrs Evans has said , is to encourage the need for more waste . 
It will not be economically viable if you do not have enough waste to keep the incinerators going . 
We also must remember that waste does not disappear . 
It is turned into dioxins and also toxic ash - what will you do with that ? 
In Ireland , some operators are proposing using it in building materials . 
What will be the long - term consequences of that ? 
In Ireland , regardless of what my colleague Mr Hyland said , we have an appalling record on waste management . 
We have one of the highest landfill records in Europe . 
Now it seems the government are moving from landfill to incineration and it is being presented as the green option . 
They say :  " We are turning waste into energy - isn ' t that wonderful ? " when in actual fact they are trying to hoodwink the public into believing that this is something that is ecologically sound . 
The recent court case in Ireland which decided against the siting of an incinerator in an agricultural area was extremely important . 
It is very important that we get our act right , that we look first and foremost at waste management . 
For any government to propose that incineration should be introduced instead of landfill is completely misguided . 
We have to look at the root causes of why the waste is there in the first place . 
Mr President , the amendments by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy underline generally the high levels of environmental protection , and for that reason many of these amendments are acceptable . 
There are differing infrastructures for the treatment and incineration of waste in different countries , however , and , as a result , the same provisions are not in fact the same for everyone . 
In Finland and some other countries the sorting of waste in close proximity to where it originates is very advanced . 
Thus , we do not incinerate mixed waste , as they do in certain countries . 
The incineration of mixed waste is bad environmental policy . 
Sorted waste can be incinerated effectively together with other fuels in a so - called coincineration process . 
The amendments by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy unjustifiably lump together the incineration of mixed waste with parallel incineration . 
That might have an adverse effect , as a result of its indirect economic impact , on levels of environmental protection in the countries that sort waste . 
For that reason , Amendments Nos 14 , 17 , 18 and 27 should not be adopted . 
Finally , I would like say that the cement industry lobby should not be put in a competitive position that is better than that enjoyed by the hazardous waste disposal plants . 
Mr President , I find myself in agreement with Mrs Grossetête and Mrs Paulsen and - rather alarmingly for both of us - with Mr Bowe . 
But I want to make a particular point in relation to an alarm which has been raised in the United Kingdom by the agricultural sector literally in the last few days . 
A number of United Kingdom MEPs have been contacted by farming interests , who are very worried that the incineration directive will apply to all on - farm incinerators in the United Kingdom . 
There are said to be several thousand of these , and the full effect of applying the controls outlined in the directive would be to put up the costs for each incinerator to operate by an estimated £ 200 000 . 
Typically , such incinerators deal with animal waste from the agriculture sector and with the disposal of empty pesticide containers at a rate of less than 50 kg an hour . 
Both processes satisfy the criteria of best practicable environmental option and are accepted by environmental inspectors in the United Kingdom . 
No exception has been moved for these under Article 2 ( 2 ) and the closure of incinerators following the entry into force of the directive would pose enormous problems of cost and of disposal of animal waste for UK farmers . 
My question to the Commissioner , which I hope that she will able to answer when she comes , is this : since we have not moved an exception to take account of these on - farm incinerators , is this the first time the European Commission has heard of this difficulty ? 
Have they received any representations from United Kingdom ministers ? 
Can the Commissioner say when an opportunity for revising the directive to introduce these exceptions - supposing Parliament would ever agree to them - might arise , and does it feel that such an exception for animal waste and for the burning of empty pesticide containers in on - farm incinerators would in fact be likely to gain acceptance ? 
I have given the Commissioner notice of these questions . 
Mr President , the treatment of waste and the whole policy on waste is becoming an ever more important part of EU environmental policy . 
To be able to act sensibly and correctly we have to bear in mind something that has already been spoken of here , which is to say the waste hierarchy : the prevention of waste , recycling , the exploitation of its energy - producing potential through incineration , and its final treatment . 
The Commission ' s proposal is not a total response to this idea , and is rather based on the notion that everything must and can be burnt . 
The Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy added the necessary amendments to promote the waste hierarchy to its common position in its second reading , and I hope that these points of view will also be adopted in tomorrow ' s vote . 
I also hope there is support for the proposal that was very much endorsed by the Committee to facilitate the incineration of waste produced by the paper and cellulose industry at the production site . 
This waste is an important energy source not only for the industrial plants themselves but also for the surrounding community . 
As the waste hierarchy is implemented in very many different ways in different Member States and in most countries they burn both hazardous and non - hazardous waste in the same incinerator , very strict rules are required . 
However , in those countries where the recycling of waste is reasonably well established , such as Finland , and where they know what is being incinerated where , tighter controls will not improve the state of the environment ; on the contrary , it might make it worse , as the incineration of waste will be prevented in small incineration plants and transportation will increase . 
But , as regards impurities in the air , it would be necessary that exceptions to the strict standards would only apply when the party incinerating the waste can truly demonstrate that no more emissions are being released into the air than what the licensing conditions allow . 
Mr President , the directive on the incineration of waste is well intended but I think those responsible for preparing it have gone into too much detail . 
I am mainly worried about the so - called coincineration of waste . 
Sorted community waste and , for example , the fibrous pulp sludge that is produced in forest industry processes serve as good fuel supplements for many heating plants . 
The draft , however , calls for ongoing , expensive , to some extent impossible , and environmentally unnecessary monitoring of plants that are engaged in harmless coincineration . 
The end result will run counter to the original aim : non - hazardous sorted waste , which is a valid form of fuel for heating plants , will have to be driven to a landfill site to add to methane emissions or it will have to be transported hundreds of kilometres to large incinerators , all the while polluting the environment . 
There are many amendments in the report that are problematic . 
I think the matter should either go back to the Committee or the Council ' s common position , at least its main features , should be adhered to . 
Mr President , honourable Members , efforts to set limits for pollutants produced by waste incineration and to introduce specific control procedures are indeed a positive step . 
It is unacceptable for pollution to be transferred from the air into water and the ground . 
The directive makes some headway in that direction . 
Nevertheless , the problems inherent in waste incineration still remain , since it is the actual burning process which produces toxic substances , including dioxins . 
This applies even more to domestic waste which contains negligible quantities of toxic substances before it is burned . 
Treating dangerous and non - dangerous waste in the same way therefore exacerbates the problem . 
What is more , the cost of installing and operating incineration units is far higher than the cost of mechanical recycling or sanitary landfill . 
In a nutshell , the legislative proposal under discussion will not solve the problems inherent in incineration as a waste management method . 
Mr President , I would like to thank Mr Blokland for this report ; he has had a very hard job to do . 
Drafting environmental legislation for the whole of Europe is a demanding task , as circumstances in Member States differ enormously . 
I myself come from a country where we have already opted for a policy that corresponds amazingly closely to the EU strategy on waste . 
Only Finland has already embarked on perfectly feasible practices , as you have heard this evening . 
Therefore , it is tiresome to see that the same mechanisms that are needed to guide those countries that have been lax in their attention to the matter of waste disposal , are forcing the more advanced countries to take a step backwards . 
This should not be happening . 
Mrs Paulsen , was right : this is exactly where compliance with the principle of subsidiarity is needed . 
If more stringent requirements regarding emissions are being illogically imposed on the use of waste as fuel than for other fuels , fuels classified as waste will cease to be used . 
There are no alternative proposed uses for waste : it would be deposited in landfill sites . 
That will add to the formation of methane , as a result of putrefaction of organic waste , and the greenhouse phenomenon . 
This holds true especially for the incineration of harmless sludge produced by the paper and cellulose industry . 
It is important that Parliament amends the proposal for the directive in this respect in accordance with the Committee ' s amendment . 
The Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy adopted some proposals that , if realised , would make it harder to practise ecologically justified coincineration . 
For example , the limit values for emissions for fuel that is not waste in coincineration are required to be the same as for waste as fuel , even though the same material may be incinerated and give off higher levels of emissions , under EU legislation . 
Another example is the call for the ongoing monitoring of the ammonia content of gas from chimneys . 
That will add substantially to the costs of monitoring with no benefit to the environment , as the monitoring obligations have not just been imposed on those plants where ammonia emissions are generally produced . 
Investments that do not bring a value added element with regard to the environment mean less investments that are of benefit to the environment . 
Mr President , Mr Blokland , ladies and gentlemen , waste management is a complex task . 
This is confirmed yet again by our discussions and the particularly powerful lobbying . 
I therefore approve of the European Union ' s approach which is to adopt an overall strategy in relation to this major environmental and health issue . 
Nonetheless , personally speaking , I have always been rather worried to see the incineration of dangerous and non - dangerous waste dealt with in the same legislation , and I expressed my opinion on this point at first reading . 
The majority decided in favour of coincineration . 
My opinion is that today we must fight to prevent the emission standards for dangerous waste being relaxed . 
The volume of waste to be incinerated is going to be significantly increased . 
The figure of 31 million tonnes in 1990 has been mentioned . 
This year we are talking about close to 60 million tonnes , and waste incineration generates , as everyone has mentioned , the emission of particularly dangerous substances into the atmosphere and soil . 
The debate has focused on coincineration . 
I find the maximum standard of 40 % excessive , but I should like more especially to stress , just briefly , the fact that the increasingly widespread use of dangerous waste in coincineration units is liable to lead us to accept the production of this type of waste , with a particularly high risk of hearing , tomorrow , that serious investment has been made with a view to constructing coincineration units . 
They therefore now have to be made to run profitably , leading to an increase in the volume of dangerous substances transported , with all the risks that this entails . 
In conclusion , while mentioning that penalties must be applied in cases of non - compliance and perhaps also that support should be provided for the authorities modifying their household waste incinerators to comply with the standards , it is still essential to stress that our top priority is , and must continue to be , avoiding the creation of this type of waste and recycling as much as possible . 
Mr President , we all know that disposing of waste in an environmentally friendly manner and utilising its energy by means of the latest technology is a requirement of our time and wholly appropriate . 
The directive on the incineration of waste contains important starting points for introducing compulsory high environmental standards throughout the European Union which have already been in place in some Member States for a number of years . 
And this is important and necessary . 
The aim of the directive is to establish emission levels which ensure harmless and environmentally friendly incineration of both dangerous and non - dangerous waste in incineration and coincineration plants without presenting any risk to human health . 
People are sensitised today and have fears of a high level of air pollution and the illnesses which can result and so the policy must also create completely clear framework conditions to limit the risk . 
Nevertheless , I must say that Mr Blokland is proposing some regulations and stringent conditions for the directive which go way beyond the objective . 
The operating conditions for incineration plants , as proposed in Amendment No 11 , are neither appropriate to the objective nor practicable but , quite simply , superfluous . 
Science and practice have shown for some time now that such a measure does not prevent high emissions of hydrogen chlorides and dioxins . 
In practice , Amendment No 11 would also mean that many halogenated substances , for example PVC , which frequently occurs in mixed domestic waste , would be excluded from incineration in waste incineration plants . 
A further point is to ensure that the directive does not give rise to any protected markets . 
Industries which use coincineration plants in their production process have , for many years , successfully concerned themselves with achieving high air purity standards in incineration . 
Many companies are also dependent on the use of waste to retain competitiveness and jobs . 
Millions have already been spent on measures to reduce energy consumption . 
In my opinion , we should not disregard these efforts . . . . 
 ( The President cut the speaker off ) 
Mr President , I should like to make two brief points which may well be relevant should this go to conciliation , as I suspect it will . 
The first is the impact of this directive on the existing specialist toxic waste incineration industry . 
These incinerators have to adhere to higher standards than the coincineration plants . 
My concern is that the high calorific value waste will be cherry - picked for coincineration and this in turn will push up the cost of the specialist toxic waste incinerators which will mean that they will have to actually buy in fuel in many instances to achieve the high temperatures which are required to destroy things like dioxin . 
We need the specialist toxic waste incinerators . 
There are only three at the moment in the United Kingdom . 
If we had fewer of these plants , it would mean that hazardous waste might well have to be transported for large distances , which is not acceptable for both political and practical environment reasons , and it would also push up the cost of incinerating this toxic waste . 
The second point I would make is to underline the point made by Dr Jackson . 
I come from a region in the United Kingdom with the highest density of pigs . 
Now traditionally fallen stock has been disposed of by burial on the farm , but with these very large units this is just not a practical way of disposal , so many of the units have installed their own incinerators - small incinerators using less than 50 kg per hour . 
If these incinerators are not used , people may well have to go back to burial . 
I think this mix - up has been due to a misunderstanding between the Department of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture in Britain , who thought there were only sixty incinerators of this type when in fact there are several thousand . 
This problem also applies to hunt kennels which feed fallen stock , and dispose of offal and - bizarrely - to pet crematoria , although I understand that human crematoria are not covered as dead people are not classified as waste . 
In conciliation could I ask you to make allowance for these farmers who have invested in cleaning up the environment by installing incinerators , and for whom the cost would be excessive should they not be able to continue . 
Mr President , first and foremost , I want to thank the rapporteur , Mr Blokland for the considerable commitment he has shown and for his well prepared recommendation for second reading . 
Together with the Council ' s determination to arrive quickly at a common position , the report has helped with the efficient reading of the Commission ' s proposal . 
The proposed directive on waste incineration goes to the heart of environmental legislation : the protection of public health . 
The proposal will help reduce dioxin emissions from incineration by 90 per cent . 
As from 2005 , when the directive begins to apply to existing plant , dioxin emissions from incinerators will be insignificant . 
Together with the directive on waste deposition , the directive on waste incineration will put a stop to methods of treating waste which do not take account of future generations ' needs and interests . 
Both directives constitute a firm basis for the sustainable treatment of the waste hierarchy , with improved preventative measures , better recycling and environmentally safe deposition of waste . 
I should like to remind you that there already exists a directive on a waste hierarchy . 
It is therefore obvious that , in this case , it is recycling that one should attempt , in the first place , to regulate . 
Unfortunately , Mr Bowe , it has been 11 years since the technical requirements in these directives were last reviewed . 
43 amendments have been tabled . 
Of these , the Commission is able to approve eight in full , five in part and three in principle . 
The following amendments are aimed at clarifying the Commission ' s proposal . 
The Commission is able to approve them in part , in principle or in full : 4 , in principle , with the exception of the last section ; 6 , 8 , 9 , 10 and 11 , but only the elucidation of the two seconds ; 12 and 14 , second section ; 17 in principle , but not the requirement continually to measure the levels of ammonia and mercury ; 18 , first section ; 19 , 22 , and 24 in principle ; 25 : the figure of 500 milligrams for nitric oxides in new plant , together with the proposed new paragraph at the end ; 27 in principle , together with Amendment No 43 . 
The Commission is not able to approve the first section of Amendment No 14 . 
If the word " untreated " were to be deleted , it would no longer be possible to use mixed household waste in co - incinerators , something which would also apply to waste which had undergone extensive pre - treatment . 
The second section of this amendment is , in principle , acceptable . 
By introducing an explanation of the word " untreated "  , the paragraph can be made less ambiguous . 
The European Parliament ' s Amendments Nos 1 , 2 and 7 , which are aimed at introducing provisions concerning the treatment of waste , cannot , for reasons of principle , be approved . 
The Commission ' s proposal is aimed at introducing limits for emissions and at establishing operative conditions for all waste incinerated or co - incinerated , and this should not influence the legislation concerning the treatment of waste . 
The Commission is not able to approve Amendments 5 and 15 which are designed to introduce links to standards of air and water quality . 
Legislation of this kind already exists or is at present being prepared , for example the directives concerning air quality and coordinated measures to prevent and limit pollution , together with the proposed framework directive concerning water . 
The amendments would involve the provisions in these acts being duplicated or becoming more ambiguous . 
Amendments Nos 3 , 16 , 30 and 33 - 35 are not compatible with the directive ' s structure and cannot therefore be approved . 
There has been a certain amount of confusion concerning Amendment No 13 where a number of language versions have been changed but not the English language version . 
This amendment cannot , however , be adopted by the Commission . 
Articles 12 and 15 of the proposal concern access to information and reporting . 
They are now worded in such a way as to guarantee that all players have access to the information they require . 
The Commission therefore considers that Amendments Nos 20 and 21 are unnecessary . 
Amendments Nos 36 - 39 are designed to tighten up the requirements with regard to measurements . 
The Commission is not able to accept these because they would place an additional burden upon those responsible and because no justification of their real value can be provided . 
Finally , Annexes II , IV and V are , as you know , the heart of the Directive , establishing the limits for emissions in the cases of coincineration and incineration . 
As I have already mentioned , the Commission accepts the proposed limit of 500 milligrams for nitric oxides in new cement kilns . 
This is also justified from the point of view of cost - income analysis . 
Any further amendment for the purpose of making the limits stricter or of removing from certain plants the right to be regarded as exceptions would threaten the delicate balance achieved in the common position . 
The Commission cannot therefore accept Amendments Nos 23 , 26 , 28 , 29 , 31 , 32 40 , 41 and 42 . 
With regard to Mrs Jackson ' s question about the incineration of dead animals on farms , I would provide the following clarification . The incineration of dead animals is not included under the directive , and this in accordance with the exceptions defined in Article 2 . 2 . 
As I have noted previously , the Commission accepts parts of Amendment No 4 , which refers to Directive 74 / 442 and which indirectly makes it possible to exclude the incineration of infected animals on farms . 
We consequently accept this principle . 
The Commission is to investigate the possibility of extending the exception concerning radioactive waste also to include exceptions such as infected dead animals . 
I understand that there is a debate going on in Great Britain , and perhaps in other places too , concerning the incineration of , for example , empty packages of insecticide etc . 
It is not , of course , the intention that these should be incinerated . 
That sounds dangerous . 
Nor does it sound as if one should be burning them at home in one ' s backyard . 
I do not want to exclude our needing to review how the exceptions are to be worded once we have obtained more information and know exactly what types of plant are concerned . 
There was a certain amount of confusion because we at first believed that we were concerned here with dead animals and infected dead animals , of which we thought exceptions should be made . 
My understanding from the interpretation was that the incineration of dead animals is not covered by this directive under the terms of Article 2 ( 2 ) . 
I am looking at Article 2 ( 2 ) and I cannot see that exclusion set out there . 
It talks about vegetable waste and vegetable waste does not cover dead animals . 
However , I will get clarification from the Commissioner personally . 
Infectious animal waste is not covered by the scope of this directive in its common position form because it is covered by Directive 90 / 667 . 
The adoption of Amendment No 4 to Article 2 ( 2 ) might give the Commission the chance to revise the text so as to include a specific exclusion for infectious animal waste . 
As things stand all other animal waste is covered by Article 2 ( 2 ) ( a ) ( v ) of the directive and Directive 90 / 667 . 
That concludes the debate . 
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon . 
Ozone in ambient air
The next item is the report ( A5 - 0062 / 2000 ) drawn up by Mr Davies on behalf of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy , on a proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive relating to ozone in ambient air ( COM ( 1999 ) 125 - C5 - 0047 / 1999 - 1999 / 0067 ( COD ) ) . 
Mr President , given the importance of the directive on national emission ceilings to this report on a proposal for a daughter directive , it is a little surprising that the order of debate is as it is , because without reduction in the key trans - boundary pollutants we are not going to reduce ozone . 
This report sets national targets for ozone levels and proposes action plans for dealing with local problems of exceedance . 
To save time I am going to assume that the respiratory and other health problems associated with ozone are understood , and that every Member of this House will want to reduce them . 
The disputes between us will be about costs and time - scales , and perhaps also about the accuracy of the Commission ' s methodology and the achievability of the targets it has set in this directive . 
Let me deal directly with the Commission ' s core proposal , the setting of a target for 2010 of 120 mg per cubic metre for ozone , not to be exceeded on more than 20 days per year . 
Commission proposals for environmental improvements need to be both ambitious and realistic . 
These proposals are certainly ambitious but many governments dispute whether they are politically realistic , and having just come from a difficult - albeit ultimately successful - group meeting of my own , I know that many Members have doubts . 
In particular , representatives of the Mediterranean countries point out problems resulting from the strong sunlight they enjoy . 
I point out that the Commission ' s methodology has taken full account of this but I look at their faces and still see a degree of scepticism . 
I did wonder some months ago whether to table amendments , which would suggest a less ambitious outcome , but which would perhaps be more acceptable to Member States . 
But the Commission ' s 120 mg target is in line with World Health Organisation proposals , and who am I to suggest that they should be challenged ? 
The number of days of exceedance could easily be adjusted , but that is something to negotiate only when necessary . 
It is a good target and , if it is at all possible , then it should be retained . 
The position I have taken in preparing this report is to say that those who want tougher targets than the Commission has proposed should have their views rejected . 
But equally it would be wrong for us to water down the draft directive . 
That is why I am sorry to see amendments tabled which reflect the Industry Committee ' s position . 
It seems to have been overlooked by many that these amendments , if carried , would leave the European Union in a much weaker position with regard to ozone targets than is enjoyed by the United States of America . 
We are aware of growing problems of ozone across Europe , but if we are not even prepared to match the standards being set by the USA , one of our great commercial rivals , this would indeed be a great shame and a sorry reflection on our commitment to environmental improvement . 
I ask Parliament to support my proposals , to give its backing to the Commissioner and to let her play her part in negotiating a common position which is both ambitious and politically realistic . 
