Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I would like to put forward the proposal of the Industry Committee which was adopted by 40 votes to 4 and which deals with target values in particular . 
There is absolutely no doubt that in tightening up or adopting the ozone directive we must find a reasonable compromise between the justifiable demand for improved air quality and the possibility for European economy and society to reasonably adapt in particularly polluted regions . 
For this reason , unlike the Environment Committee which has responsibility in this matter , we have not taken on board the proposals of the Commission wholesale , but have modified them . 
I know that the experts at the Commission will vigorously oppose this , but we think that we can propose a compromise given that the guide value of 180 µg / m3 is not disputed , nor indeed the critical value of 240 , only the target value . 
We would like to propose for this a 30 - year programme which , although based on the WHO value of 120 µg / m3 , provides for a phased reduction in the number of days on which this value may be exceeded : 40 days in 2010 , 20 days in 2020 ( which is the Commission ' s target for 2010 ) and no days in 2030 . 
This is a concern in particular for the warmer regions of Europe , namely coastal regions , which have to cope with a particularly high external ozone penetration . 
I think we have put forward a reasonable compromise here . 
In any case , we are prepared to compromise with the Commission , particularly as we assume that only this type of compromise will also find approval in the Council . 
For this reason we are venturing to re - introduce this proposal on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party , even though it was marginally defeated in the Environment Committee . 
We hope that you will consent to it . 
Mr President , Commissioner , I agree that the most important difficulty with this directive is the diversity of criteria with regard to the establishment of target levels and time - scales for the reduction of the ozone concentrations in the atmosphere : the famous items 2 and 3 of annex 1 . 
We in the Group of the European People ' s Party consider it necessary to support the main lines set in the Commission ' s proposal , especially with regard to target levels , which coincide with the guidelines of the World Health Organisation on air quality and which establish the permissible concentrations of ozone at 120 µg / m3 . 
Nevertheless , it seems to us to be inadvisable to accept the amendments which make 2010 the time limit , the only one in the short term , and set 2020 as the time limit for long term objectives . 
In this respect , we think it is essential to allow for greater flexibility with regard to the periods of adaptation to the said target levels , given the real difficulty of controlling ozone concentrations when setting figures purely on the basis of the existence of previous data , as is constantly seen in certain climatic conditions , especially , as has just been mentioned , in the Mediterranean countries . 
Our Group therefore vigorously defends Amendments Nos 26 and 28 , which establish a progressive and realistic achievement of the proposed objectives , by means of a progressive scale according to the number of days in a year the target levels can be exceeded . 
However , we consider very positive the amendments on the countries which are candidates for accession to the European Union , so that they may participate as soon as possible in the achievement of the Union ' s objectives - and we congratulate Mrs Davies on this initiative - and it also seems important to us that the action plans are of a local nature and that the possibilities for reducing ozone concentrations are studied on a case by case basis . 
I believe that a vote in favour of the amendments proposed by the European People ' s Party is a vote for progress in the control and monitoring of one of the most serious pollutants to date , initiating , in a decisive and homogenous way , in all the Member States , actions for its elimination as a threat to the health of persons and ecosystems , without deluding ourselves as to the real possibilities of completely eradicating it in the short term . 
Mr President , I should first of all like to thank Mr Chris Davies for this report . 
Adoption of the Commission ' s proposal and of Mr Davies ' s report will mean a considerable improvement in air quality for Europe ' s citizens . 
I think there are two crucial points here . 
The first is that the WHO ' s guidelines should be adhered to . 
I think that this would be an important step towards preventing serious illnesses and premature deaths , especially among particularly vulnerable sectors of the population , including children . 
The second thing I think is very important is that specific dates should be set , both for when in 2010 we are to achieve the provisional targets and for when in 2020 we are to attain the long - term objectives . 
I think that setting dates is very important to our also in actual fact attaining the objectives . 
In addition , I should like to make a couple of remarks on the amendments inspired by the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy and which are intended to weaken the Commission ' s initiative by allowing much greater exceedances of the WHO ' s recommendations and by significantly delaying efforts to achieve the targets set by the WHO . 
The amendments would not only impair the Commission ' s proposal but also constitute a deterioration and retrograde step in relation to the situation of which we are now , in fact , aware in Europe . 
As Mr Davies also mentioned , standards are , in actual fact , lower than those in the United States . 
I do not know how one can call the proposals a happy medium or compromise , as Mr Langen did a moment ago . 
I think they are completely incomprehensible and irresponsible . 
They would involve serious health and environmental consequences for the people of Europe , together with a bill for Europe ' s health services to the tune of billions . 
I would therefore very much recommend that we support the Commission ' s proposal , together with Mr Davies ' report . 
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I would like to congratulate Mr Davies on his excellent report . 
I would also like to thank the European Commission for its sound green proposals . 
Back in July 1995 , Strasbourg was labouring under ozone smog . 
On the initiative of the Green Group , the European Parliament then adopted a resolution to halve the ozone standard stipulated in the 1992 directive . 
The European Commission ' s proposal has made a lot of headway in this direction . 
Ozone smog is still on the increase . 
It is now even permeating the southern European skies during the winter months . 
It has paralysed the traffic in northern Italy over the past couple of weeks and , during the summer months , countries such as Denmark and Sweden also suffer with ozone smog . 
Ozone smog is now to be found everywhere in Europe . 
Ozone is always an aggressive substance . 
There are no safe ozone levels , despite what the World Health Organisation claims . 
This is why the Green Group proposes allowing just fifteen exceedances of critical loads per annum . 
This number is slightly lower than the proposal made by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Protection . 
My group can also support the twenty exceedances proposed by the Committee . However , it cannot back the proposal made by the Christian Democrats and UNICE Employers ' Union of forty such incidents per annum . 
This is far too many and thirty years is a ridiculous time limit , given the fact that the problem is taking on such proportions . 
In order to reach this strict ozone standard , the NOx emissions from traffic , in particular , and the emission of volatile organic substances will need to go down drastically . 
This is the topic of Mrs Myller ' s report . 
In the case of an ozone alert , we also need to be able to take short - term action . 
The Dutch Government makes so many concessions to the transport lobby that it fails to realise this . 
For my group , the car is no sacred cow . 
Mr President , I too wish to thank Mr Davies for the report he has prepared . 
It is an extremely important report , especially from a health perspective . 
Seen from an environmental point of view , it is also intimately linked to the next subject , namely Mrs Myller ' s report . 
I am convinced that these two reports together provide a sound basis for positive developments in Europe in the fields of health and the environment . 
During the short time I have in which to speak , I should like to try to scotch some of the flourishing myths which exist with regard to the ozone issue . 
This especially applies to the situation in southern Europe . 
The climate in southern Europe is often used as a reason for , or explanation of , the high levels of ozone which are often to be found in the summertime . 
It is true that climates with long periods of high pressure increase the presence of ozone . 
At the same time , research shows that the reasons why ozone affects cities such as Barcelona , Athens and Milan and many of the tourist resorts along the coast must be sought elsewhere . 
The reasons have to be sought in traffic levels , in industrial processes and in energy production . 
It is also these matters which we can influence by means of the Directives concerned . 
It is therefore something of a pity that the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy should have such a detached attitude towards the present Directive and only see it in a perspective which favours industry . 
Instead , we ought to see what happens when the limits set by the WHO are constantly exceeded and when people ( both residents and tourists ) are constantly exposed to a danger to their health . 
We know that the risks are greatest for people who are in the open air a great deal , especially children . 
We know that exceedance of ozone limits directly affects children ' s lung capacity . 
The Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy ought to consider this when the present directive is voted upon tomorrow . 
Mr President , I want to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy for their support of the Commission ' s proposal and draft report . 
Within the European Union , we have achieved a certain amount of success when it comes to improving air quality . 
Nonetheless , ozone still constitutes one of the most serious environmental problems . 
On more than 60 days every summer in a number of locations in Central and Southern Europe , ozone levels exceed the target values set by the World Health Organisation . 
The Fifth Environmental Action Programme established the long - term objective of ensuring that these limits were not in fact exceeded . 
If we are to be able to solve this problem , we need to take measures with clearly defined subsidiary objectives . 
The Commission ' s proposal therefore for the first time establishes clear limits upon ozone levels which , as far as possible , are to be attained by no later than the year 2010 . 
The target value in terms of protecting people ' s health means that the WHO ' s guidelines must not be exceeded on more than 20 days per year . 
Programmes for reducing emissions are necessary in those cases where the target values are not attained . 
The directive on national emission ceilings , which is the next point on the agenda , will lead to improvements in ozone levels so that the target values in question might for the most part be attained . 
The proposal is nonetheless a clear expression of the political will that exists to attain the long - term objectives in the directive , too . 
Attaining the World Health Organisation ' s target values is only the first step . 
In reviewing the Directive in the year 2004 , we must therefore analyse how and when we can achieve the long - term objective . 
The Commission is able wholly to approve Amendments Nos 3 , 4 , 6 , 7 , 13 , 14 and 15 . 
Amendment No 5 , section two , is also acceptable in view of the fact that the Member States have to prepare emission reduction programmes before they can implement them . 
With regard to Amendment No 9 , the Commission is also able to approve some of the changes in their entirety and the majority of them in principle . 
We approve those changes relating to short - term measures which are to be implemented in each zone in which the threshold value is exceeded . 
We also agree that the Member States should inform the public as to whether they intend to prepare and implement short - term action plans and , if so , in what ways , and that they should also inform them as to how often such measures have been taken . 
We believe it is necessary for this information to be reported to the Commission . However , that issue is more at home in Article 10 . 
We cannot , however , accept that short - term measures should only be taken at local level . Nor do we believe that the Member States should be enjoined to analyse whether short - term measures are an effective tool in each individual case and in each individual place where the threshold value has been exceeded . 
The Commission is able to approve the principles behind Amendments 10 and 11 . 
We are going to redraft subparagraph 1c in order to take account of the idea behind the last section of Amendment No 9 and Amendments Nos 10 and 11 . 
Amendment No 12 can be approved in principle . 
The Commission believes that progress by the Member States ought to be presented in a form which permits direct comparisons between countries , if that is possible in practice . 
The principle in Amendment No 16 is also acceptable . 
The Commission agrees that climate changes ought to be emphasised . 
This ought , however , to be done in a broader perspective and not only in relation to changes in fuel consumption . 
Amendment No 2 advocates coordination between Member States and Applicant States . 
This can in principle be approved , but some rewording is required if misinterpretations are to be avoided . 
We cannot , however , approve Amendment No 1 . 
Even if the Commission agrees that it is important to involve the Applicant States , there is no reason for reiterating this in a directive aimed at the Member States . 
Nor is Amendment No 8 acceptable when it comes to predictions of exceedances of information thresholds . 
The use of prognosis models is specified as a prerequisite of thresholds for alerting the public , something which would make the way in which the public is informed or alerted less reliable . 
This is an issue on which practical considerations and the possibility of practical implementation must be taken into account . 
Finally , we must reject the first and third sections of Amendment No 5 , together with Amendments Nos 17 and 18 . In the present situation , we quite simply do not have enough information available to be able to predict when the long - term objective of not exceeding the World Health Organisation ' s guidelines can be attained . 
In addition , the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 28 . 
That concludes the debate . 
The vote will be taken at 12 noon tomorrow . 
Atmospheric pollutants
The next item is the report ( A5 - 0063 / 2000 ) by Mrs Myller on behalf of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on national emission ceilings for certain atmospheric pollutants ( COM ( 1999 ) 125 - C5 - 0047 / 1999 - 1999 / 0067 ( COD ) ) . 
Mr President , the European Union has ambitious goals for the environment , which were set forth , for example , in the Fifth Environmental Action Programme and the acidification strategy presented in 1997 . 
These programmes stated as their aim the protection of people and nature from the adverse effects of air pollution , meaning that critical ceilings in respect of nature and people would not be exceeded . 
The Commission ' s proposal for a directive on national emission ceilings is an important step in achieving the aims the Union set itself : to protect its citizens from the adverse effects of air pollutants . 
The legacy of past decades is going to take some time to put right , however . 
We are still not even aware of all the technical potential for ridding ourselves of sources of emissions entirely . 
For this reason , it is reasonable to proceed in stages , as the Commission has proposed . 
The first stage is the Interim Environmental Objectives to be achieved by 2010 , which means cutting health - threatening ozone loads by two - thirds by that year . 
We cannot be satisfied with just this , however , as , after this target has been met , there will still be too many areas where pollution counts exceed levels that are dangerous to people and nature . 
Owing to this , I have recommended in my report a long - term goal , in addition to the interim one , and a final target for 2020 . 
In that way , we would finally be able to reach a point where critical levels and loads are not exceeded and everyone will be protected effectively from all known health effects of air pollution . 
In this connection I would like to draw your attention to my amendment , in which , owing to a translation error , there is a wrong word in your copy of the document . 
In place of ' reached ' it should say ' exceeded '  . 
I hope that this will be sorted out before tomorrow ' s vote . 
How , then , do we achieve a situation in which air pollution does not exceed tolerance levels for humans and for nature ? 
The Commission ' s proposal sets limit values for each Member State with regard to certain kinds of interrelated emissions , which cause acidification , increased ozone in the inner atmosphere and soil eutrophication . 
Dealing with these problems and the emissions that cause them together has proved to be the most cost - effective way of tackling the causes of air pollution and bringing it under control . 
The biggest disagreements in the implementation of the directive relate to the limit values , i . e . , the emission ceiling set for each country . 
The UN Economic Commission for Europe has also examined the objectives for reductions in the same sources of emissions as in the proposal for a directive now under discussion , and , as a result of these talks , the so - called Gothenburg Protocol was signed . 
There is a clear difference between this proposal and the Commission ' s . 
If we were to accept the ceilings in the Gothenburg Protocol , we would never reach the targets that the Union has set itself regarding air pollution . 
Comparing the differences between the Gothenburg Protocol and the Commission ' s proposal with regard to the effects on health , the annual reduction levels proposed by the Commission would save the lives of as many as four thousand people a year in Europe . 
Although it is beyond dispute that the ambitious targets set for the environment have been found to be an essential ingredient in people ' s health and safety , there have been pleas for lower ceilings , on the basis that cleaner air costs too much for industry and communities . 
It has to be said , however , that there is very considerable exaggeration with regard to the costs involved . 
If , on the other hand , we calculate the benefits that better air quality will bring to people and the natural environment , as well as to buildings , we see that the economic benefits are four times greater than the costs . 
We still have to work on the proposal for the directive so that , for example , the situation with regard to the applicant countries and those questions too that relate to the EU ' s neighbouring regions can be better taken into account . 
Mr President , the industry committee , after much discussion and serious consideration , is overwhelmingly opposed to the Commission ' s proposed ceilings , and this is across all groups and nationalities . 
The UN ECE ceilings were agreed by all our Member States , by the applicant countries and globally , in a protocol signed at Gothenburg as recently as November 1999 . 
Why did the Commission come up with these even stricter and substantially more expensive ceilings only one month later ? 
I understand that the groups , the whole Parliament , are split on this issue , between supporters of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy and supporters of the industry committee ' s line . 
Members of Parliament should be aware of the serious implications for our industries and agriculture , for our competitiveness , for jobs and - yes - for people and our constituents if the Commission proposal wins through . 
The industry committee urges this House to vote in favour of the amendments which are tabled in my name and in the name of Mr Bowe . 
These are the amendments passed by the industry committee . 
The UN ceilings are quite ambitious enough for us to reach our internationally agreed targets in reasonable time . 
The industry committee wishes to see these limits fully and properly implemented across the European Union and globally . 
The Commission can then concentrate on ensuring this occurs , on perfecting the models that are used and perhaps come up with new proposals in two or three years ' time on the basis of much more convincing arguments regarding the relevant costs and benefits . 
Support the Purvis amendments and the United Nations Gothenburg table of national emission ceilings . 
Mr President , it has become universally acknowledged that environmental pollution , and certainly air pollution , are cross - border issues par excellence . 
The present draft directive on national emission ceilings tackles the key culprits where atmospheric pollution is concerned . 
It contains maximum emission levels for substances which are responsible for acidification , ozone forming in the troposphere and the eutrophication of soil . 
As the topic is reasonably technical , I will only single out the salient points on behalf of myself and my group . 
The directive ' s key goal is to reduce the emission levels of said substances to below the critical levels and , hence , pollution . 
These goals must be met by 2010 , with an interim assessment of the national programmes in 2006 . 
The most important - and you have heard so yourself just now - and most talked about component of the proposal is , of course , the table which specifies the permitted annual emission levels for each country . 
The fact that , at UN level , 36 countries , including 15 EU Member States , recently agreed on less strict standards for the same substances played an important role in the discussion . 
There are now Members who urge that this table , i . e . the European Commission ' s table , be replaced by the UN ' s so - called Gothenburg table , which permits a higher ceiling . 
Mr President , I have to admit that this line of argument is rather weak . 
Indeed , UN agreements are always less ambitious due to the fact that it is difficult for the situation in rich , prosperous and hence often more polluting countries to be lumped together with the situation in the developing world . 
Moreover , it is incorrect that the European ceilings were established after completion of the UN negotiations . 
Examining the proposal and the argumentation - as I assume other Members have done - I notice that , at the time when the European ceilings were being stipulated , the UN protocol was still being negotiated . 
Add this to the fact that the environmental effects of SO2 , NOx and the volatile organic substances , in particular , directly affect our own continent , I - and the majority in our group , I think - can go along with the Commission proposal regarding these substances . 
Mr President , I do have another problem , namely that concerning ammonia . 
The Group of the European People ' s Party and European Democrats would like to see the present ceiling adjusted . 
Looking at the nitrate directive , I notice that hardly any Member State meets the standard specified . 
It seems to me completely unfeasible to go beyond the Gothenburg standard . 
In addition , the effects of ammonia emissions are partly local and , as such , a lower threshold seems acceptable . 
On behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party and European Democrats , I have tabled an amendment which , where ammonia is concerned , is based on the lower Gothenburg standard and defers definitively setting the ceiling until the year 2006 . 
The reason for this is that I hope that , by then , the effects of the implementation and the pending European legislation on nitrate will be able to give us better indications . 
I would like to conclude by making the following comment : legislation on ceilings is , in actual fact , the counterpart of legislation on large furnaces , for which I also happen to be rapporteur . 
We completed the first reading even before last year ' s elections . 
The Council of Ministers , however , is still putting a spanner in the works . 
Could we be informed on the progress made ? 
As a final remark , I would like to thank Mrs Myller , the rapporteur . 
Mr President , I wish to begin by thanking Mrs Myller for her report and her ambitious treatment of the directive proposed by the Commission . 
Even if the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy appears rather as if it had been caught napping and has only just woken up , the fact may , at all events , be conveyed that the problem of acidification is scarcely a new issue . 
Instead , it has been with us for as long as industrialisation - for 100 years . 
Research into the question has been going on for 30 years . None of us ought to be in any doubt about what the sources of acidification are , nor about what we should be doing regarding this issue . 
Some accuse the Commission ' s proposal , and also the report , as being excessive and far too costly to implement and say that the calculations that have been made are utopian . 
This is , however , wrong because we know that the Member States themselves have contributed to the report which serves as a basis for the whole directive . 
There is more justification for criticising the fact that we have not included the energy scenario we have emphasised elsewhere , for example in the Kyoto protocol , and which involves burning fewer fossil fuels in order also to solve the climate problems we are facing . 
With all due respect to the Gothenburg protocol - and despite the fact that it has taken its name from my home town - I have to say that it is , in fact , just not on to compare this with the directive which we have to take a decision on tomorrow . 
One might well wonder why the Commission ' s directive appears only a month later , rather like a punishment directed against this UN directive , but that has to do , of course , with nothing other than our own sluggishness in dealing with the issue . 
If we had been a little quicker off the mark , the present directive would have been on the table - signed , sealed and delivered - long before the so - called Gothenburg Protocol . 
The word " impossible " has been used about the directive . I should like to say , however , that what is impossible is the situation which we have at present . 
The impossibility lies , therefore , not in the directive but in the current situation . 
Mr President , my congratulations to Mrs Myller who I know has thought long and hard about this report . 
It seems to me that the debate comes down to this : do we believe that the Gothenburg Protocol was the best Member States can realistically achieve ? 
I recognise that the Commission and environmental groups believe that in practice much more can be delivered but nonetheless some Member States have committed themselves to significant reductions in air pollution - though that is certainly not true of all of them . 
Some Member States seem to have gone into the negotiations with a few calculations on the back of an envelope and refused to compromise in any way to set themselves any realistic targets . 
Others have not even used the same methodology , the same basis of calculation as others . 
So the protocol in many ways is a nonsense . 
It can give us no confidence whatsoever . 
It is a messy political compromise and nothing more . 
I do not know how much more the Commissioner can achieve but we should be seeking reductions in air pollution and we should be giving her our support in her efforts to negotiate them . 
We should support this report and give her our backing . 
Mr President , Mrs Myller has produced an excellent report , and our group too thinks we should go at lot further than the Gothenburg Protocol on this . 
In all probability , drafting this directive was like a national auction , and the end result is very modest when we think what the real challenges are . 
But , in any case , it is important that the European Parliament should now defend at least that policy which the Commission has chosen . 
The Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance proposes that even stricter goals should be set for 2010 than the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy has recommended . 
We want to emphasise that an integrated strategy must be adopted to reduce emissions . 
We have to remember that , in any case , we have the implementation of the Kyoto commitments ahead of us , which will mean insisting on more efficient use of energy and simply using less of it . 
So , in our opinion , this directive must take into consideration that added benefit is to be had from an integrated strategy as regards implementing its objectives . 
We are very satisfied that the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy included issues of shipping and air traffic within the scope of this directive , and we are convinced that the benefits to be gained from adhering to an integrated strategy are enormous . 
Mr President , in order to meet the objectives for air emission levels prescribed in the Fifth Environmental Action Programme , we need this directive on emission ceilings more than anything . 
If we want to combat acidification , manure pollution and smog formation , we need to reduce the emissions of sulphur dioxide , nitrogen oxide , ammonia and volatile organic substances . 
The Council ' s conclusions concerning the EU acidification strategy have raised expectations which now have to be given substance . 
This could even be done in a cost - effective way , as is evident from the explanatory note to the Commission proposal . 
We all know by now that six months ago , higher emission levels were agreed at Gothenburg within a UN context . 
These values , however , are the result of a political compromise between states , and the results of the model used by the Commission have been overlooked . 
This model is sound and the results are well founded . 
Also in view of the fact that , with these emission ceilings , the objectives of the EU ' s Fifth Environmental Action Programme still cannot be met , a relaxation of the values is unjustified . 
The first step towards achieving the emission ceilings is undoubtedly a dynamic implementation and enforcement of existing directives , such as the Auto - oil programme . 
In addition , we need to lay down new legislation in this field as soon as possible . 
In this connection , I would once more urge the Council to produce a common position on large furnaces as a matter of urgency . 
Finally , additional policy , for example in the field of volatile solvents used in paints and varnishes , as well as in car spraying , will continue to be necessary . 
Mr President , Commissioner , firstly I too would like to thank the rapporteur . 
Now to the issues : it is obvious that there are differing opinions in this House on whether the proposal of the European Commission is too ambitious . 
Many are saying that it cannot be implemented using current technology or only at an exorbitant cost . 
The Commission itself says that the proposal can be implemented cost effectively . 
I find it interesting that the European Commission is assuming in this that energy consumption in the European Union will increase by 8 % in the coming years and that there will be no change in the proportions of energy forms used and therefore no reduction in the proportion of fossil fuels . 
In my opinion this is not ambitious ; if anything , the opposite . 
We in this House have always agreed that we must reduce the proportion of fossil fuels and that we must save energy . 
If we do not achieve this , then this is a declaration of environmental bankruptcy . 
If the perceptions of the European Commission as regards this basic assumption become reality , then there is no need for us to talk any further in this House about climate protection . 
