We must increase energy efficiency , improve energy saving and promote regenerative energies whilst , at the same time , recognising that nuclear energy produces neither CO2 nor SO2 nor NH3 , volatile organic compounds or NOx . 
If we are honest about it , I think that the two ideas are not mutually incompatible and for this reason I would also like to expressly oppose certain Member States demanding exemptions under the directive if they renounce nuclear energy . 
This cannot happen within the context of collective environmental responsibility . 
All the same , I would like once again to stress the fact that the Commission proposal is not too ambitious , but if anything a little too unambitious . 
I will support it tomorrow in the vote and I hope that the majority of the House will do the same . 
Mr President , I certainly welcome this report and I gave it a lot of support in the Environment Committee . 
I creates a proper framework in which we can work in the long term to reduce emissions . 
The vast majority of the amendments I can support . 
There are one or two that went through that I have some doubts about , particularly Amendment No 7 , which I cannot see as being environmental at all , or as contributing to the overall attempt to reduce the amount of ozone - depleting substances at ground level anywhere in the Union . 
I want to come to the issue which Mr Davies has addressed , namely , where we should start from . 
With what targets are we to start ? 
Mr President , a series of quite practical and well - argued and debated figures were arrived at just before Christmas at Gothenburg under the UN / ECE protocol , and it seems to me that is the logical place to start . 
It would not to my mind be the right place to finish , but it certainly would be the right place to start and it is the reason why I was convinced when I was there in the debate in the Industry Committee , as none of my colleagues from the Environment Committee were , that it was the right place to start . 
It seems to me that the Commission figures are aspirational . 
Yes , we could go there - we should be trying to go there , but I do not think we should be starting there . 
We should be starting with the UN / ECE figures , with the Gothenburg protocol and revising them as is proposed by Mrs Myller in her report . 
Mr President , Commissioner , I have , of course , nothing against the principle of the directive . 
It is an important instrument for future environmental policy . 
The Member States are given a clearer brief . 
They know what they should be aiming for . 
Upon examination of the table with the different ceilings for each Member State , however , I get the impression that there are double standards . 
I note that , for example , my country , Belgium , has to meet the maximum possible level , rather than the economically viable level , but that , at the same time , areas in its vicinity which are just as polluted as my country can pursue a much laxer policy . 
That is because a large country can use its better regions to offset its bad practices . 
A small country is not in a position to do this . 
I shall give you an example . 
From your statistics and maps , it appears that in northern France , which is just as polluting and polluted as Belgium , matters can be processed at a lower level . 
According to your calculations , the implementation of this directive costs each Belgian EUR 103 per annum , compared to EUR 15 for each person in France , including northern France . 
That is eight times less . This is partly due to the fact that we are a small country and we are surrounded by polluters . 
One per cent of the GDP per annum is too much of a strain for my country . 
I would therefore ask you to give me your backing for Amendments Nos 16 and 17 , in which I request that the Belgian Government be given the chance to re - evaluate the situation based on the annual reports . 
Mr President , the biggest environmental problem in my own country is the acidification of land , forests , lakes and watercourses . 
Acidification leads to the death , or reduced growth , of forests and causes fish to die and fewer plants to grow . 
Acidified water also releases heavy metals which constitute a health problem . 
The countryside in the Nordic countries is particularly vulnerable to acidification because these countries are largely lacking in means to protect themselves against it . 
Acidification occurs due to acid rain , caused by air polluting emissions produced by the burning of fossil fuels . 
In Sweden and Finland , we have taken extensive measures in order to reduce national levels of air pollution . 
We are making major efforts to add lime to lakes and wetlands . 
We are , for the most part , complying with the emission targets proposed in the now current directive . 
However , more than 80 per cent of the acid rain over our country comes from air pollution not in our own countries but in other West European countries . 
We are therefore appealing for your help . 
Many North Europeans believe that it is only through environmental cooperation with other EU countries that our problems with acidification can be solved . 
To the members of the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy I want to say that the UN resolution in accordance with the Gothenburg Protocol is far from being adequate . 
I am convinced that the EU can be better than the UN at solving the environmental problems in Europe . 
The proposed EU directive against air pollution can , in fact , constitute an important step towards combating the acidification of the countryside , mainly in the northern area of the EU . 
In addition , significant reductions in the percentages of unhealthy ground - level ozone , mainly in big cities in the southern part of the EU , can at the same time be attained . 
We ought therefore to have a common interest in applauding the present EU draft directive . 
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , a fair wind is blowing the way of the environment and the European Parliament welcomes this . 
Indeed , by virtue of an unusually fortunate coincidence , directives on waste incineration , on limit values for national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants , and ozone in ambient air all feature on today ' s agenda . 
Previously , atmospheric pollution used to be associated with roads and traffic . 
Today , however , on a large scale , it refers to the whole world , and on a small scale , it even means the house we live in . 
In short , it means our whole ecosystem , and action must be taken . 
Setting emission limits for the four main pollutants is a sure way to help to reduce pollution , combat acidification and limit the harmful effects of these pollutants on human health and on plant life . 
In its proposal for a directive , the European Commission proposes quantified national emission ceilings , which must be met by 2010 for the four pollutants I have just mentioned . 
Furthermore , it estimates the costs for each Member State of complying with these limits . 
I think that this is a good strategy . 
Mrs Myller ' s excellent report makes a lucid evaluation of the European Commission ' s proposal and considers it to be balanced ; the report also seeks to strengthen the proposal in some areas . 
In particular , the committee approved a compulsory review of the directive by 2004 , which will enable there to be a review of the limit values stipulated and measures adopted to ensure that these limit values are respected . 
All of this seems quite reasonable . 
Nevertheless , I must ask a question here . 
Why should we not allow a Member State to prove that it is being treated particularly unfairly because of the way the directive is implemented , as a result , for example , of its geographical situation and its climate and the fact that these leave it at a major disadvantage ? 
Would this not be wise ? 
The EU system for combating atmospheric pollution is thus being extended , strengthened and refined . 
EU environmental policy is becoming more and more the environmental policy of each Member State , with obvious advantages for all Europe ' s citizens . 
Mr President , Commissioner , the emission ceilings in the Commission ' s proposal are very ambitious , more so than those agreed in the UN Economic Commission for Europe under the so - called Gothenburg Protocol , and so they should be . 
For my own part , I am ready to endorse the compromise prepared by the PPE - DE Group in the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy , according to which we shall comply with the Commission ' s proposal except with regard to the area of ammonia emissions , as the proposal will not cause great problems for my own country , Finland , or our neighbour , Sweden , as has become evident on many occasions in this discussion . 
However , I also understand those views that advocate electing the ceilings proposed under the Gothenburg Protocol . 
However the voting goes tomorrow , I believe the Commission should continuously monitor developments in all Member States , and promote action to help industry to make the necessary changes . 
It is important that the environmental objectives are achieved as cost - effectively as possible throughout the whole Community . 
Air quality in Europe has improved considerably in recent years . 
Emission levels have decreased significantly , at least in the energy sector , in transport and in industry . 
In recent years , there have been more and more EU acts in the area of the environment and new targets have been set for industry . 
I think it is something of a problem that the targets are repeatedly changed before any proper assessment has been made of the effects , in practice , on the environment and the costs to industry of the legislative measures that have been adopted . 
Before further obligations are imposed it is important to ensure that the action that has already been agreed is implemented in the Member States in every respect . 
These two goals are not , in my opinion , mutually exclusive . 
Finally , I believe there should be international agreements on ceilings for emissions for shipping and aircraft , and , at this stage , they should not fall within the scope of the directive . 
Regarding long - term goals , I am of the opinion that there should be no strict deadline , but that Member States should endeavour , in accordance with their own goals , to meet the norms by the time stipulated or earlier . 
Mr President , honourable Members of Parliament , we have made great strides in tackling acidification and also pollution in recent years . 
I hope that this proposal will be another important step in this direction and that is why I especially want to thank the rapporteur Mrs Myller for her valuable work . 
The Gothenburg Protocol is a step forward . 
However , it is nowhere near enough . 
The protocol goes only halfway towards the goal for acidification already agreed by Parliament and the Council . 
A substantial number of people will die early if we do not adopt the measures proposed by the Commission . 
The protocol is the result of a process in which there is too little pressure on the reluctant to do what they should . 
We cannot let this deflect the Community from agreed goals . 
The costs of the Commission ' s proposal must be kept in perspective , even on the Commission ' s highly pessimistic estimate which would not take full account of Kyoto or non - technical solutions . 
They amount to only 0 . 08 % of Community GDP in the year 2010 . 
Member States will have to do some of the things that will let them meet proposed emissions ceilings more cheaply if they are to live up to their Kyoto commitments . 
Saying that the ceilings are too difficult is dangerously close to ignoring Kyoto . 
Let me now turn to the amendments . 
The Commission can accept fully Amendments Nos 3 , 8 , 9 , 13 , 19 and 21 . 
The Commission can accept in part the principle underlying Amendments Nos 1 and 2 . 
We will draft a recital which does not appear to restrict the Commission ' s right of initiative , for inclusion in our amended proposal . 
We will also include a reference in Article 9 of the directive in order to make the new recital operational . 
It follows that the Commission does not accept Amendment No 27 . 
The aim of the Commission ' s proposal is to leave as much flexibility as possible to Member States , but we cannot rule out further Community action if this would help Member States to meet emission ceilings more cost - effectively . 
The Commission can also accept in part Amendment No 11 which would make further changes to Article 9 . 
We agree that review of the legislation should take account of aircraft emissions , further emission reductions in regions bordering on the Community , measures taken in applicant countries and transport factors . 
The Commission cannot however agree to bring forward the dates for reports to Parliament and Council . 
In 2003 the Commission will have almost no data from Member States on which to report and base any decisions . 
The Commission will not know in 2011 whether or not ceilings were met in 2010 because of the time that must be allowed for Member States to compile inventories . 
We accept in part the principles underlying Amendment No 12 . 
We will therefore redraft Article 9 ( 3 ) to incorporate much of the material in the proposed amendment . 
The Commission accepts the principles of Amendment No 23 . The reference to countries outside the UN / ECE process must be restricted to those who have supplied data and whose emissions are relevant to pollution in the Community . 
The Commission accepts Amendments Nos 24 , 25 and 26 in principle , and will also take them into account when it redrafts Article 9 as part of its amended proposal . 
The Commission has a great deal of sympathy with the concerns underlying Amendments Nos 16 and 17 . 
Allowance should be made for the fact that smaller Member States have less room to spread the load . 
However we are dealing here with transboundary pollution , so the Commission considers that adjustments to ceilings for individual Member States can only be made as part of a general review of ceilings . 
We will therefore propose a new recital and changes to Article 9 , which will ensure that effects on smaller Member States are properly taken into account on review . 
The Commission can accept that part of Amendment No 20 that would insert " an appropriate " into Recital 9 . 
We do not accept the remainder of Amendment No 20 . 
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 15 , 28 , 29 and 32 . 
They seek to replace emission ceilings that are designed to meet the agreed Community target for acidification , and to protect our citizens ' health , with the emission ceilings in the Gothenburg Protocol . 
Gothenburg ceilings fall far short of what is needed as has already been said . 
The Commission considers that , if Member States take seriously the Kyoto commitments , the emission ceilings that it has proposed will not be difficult to implement . 
We may well be able to go further by 2010 , but this is something that can only be decided when we know how Member States will meet their Kyoto targets . 
We cannot therefore accept Amendment No 31 . 
The Commission cannot accept Amendments No 4 and 14 : under the principle of subsidiarity it is for Member States , not the Commission , to determine penalties for breaches of national legislation . 
Furthermore , Amendment No 14 seeks to restrict the Commission ' s discretion under the Treaty to decide when to bring infringement proceedings . 
Amendments Nos 5 , 18 and 30 are also unacceptable . 
The Commission is committed to pursuing long - term objectives for protection of the environment and human health , but we simply do not have enough information today to predict when long - term objectives might be reached . 
The Commission must reject Amendment No 6 . 
Emissions from international maritime traffic and cruising aircraft cannot be wholly controlled by individual Member States , nor even by Community action , and cannot therefore be included in national emission ceilings . 
Action where appropriate must be taken in the International Maritime Organisation or the International Civil Aviation Organisation . 
Last week , the IMO agreed to a proposal from the Community to declare the North Sea a sulphur dioxide control area . 
The Commission will examine whether further such proposals should be made to the IMO , and whether international action is also needed on aircraft emissions . 
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 7 . 
It is based on a misleading comparison with the solvents directive , where processes may involve high temperatures . 
Non - volatile organic compounds are automatically excluded from the definition of " volatile organic compound " in these proposals since they are not found in the air in ambient conditions and do not contribute to ozone formation . 
The proposed definition is identical in the Gothenburg Protocol . 
We must maintain technical consistency . 
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 10 . 
It would remove an essential obligation for Member States regularly to update emission inventories . 
Finally , Mr President , we do not accept Amendment No 22 . 
The Commission ' s proposed wording on the key issue of public information is in line with agreements on the first two air quality daughter directives . 
Finally , I should like to answer Mrs Oomen - Ruijten because she asked about the proposals on large combustion plants . 
The answer is that the Council failed to reach a common position in December and the Commission is supporting the Portuguese presidency in its effort to make progress in parallel with the progress on this proposal . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon . 
Environmental legislation
The next item is the joint debate on two oral questions to the Commission on structural fund programmes in the Member States and national implementation of EU environmental laws ( B5 - 0014 / 2000 and B5 0208 / 2000 ) . 
Mr President , I would like , on behalf of the committee , to move at least one of the oral questions . 
First of all , I sympathise with the Commissioner ' s desire to get better implementation of European Union law . 
That is something which the committee as a whole is keen to see . 
I want to quote from an article in the United Kingdom Sunday Telegraph this last Sunday . 
The opening paragraph is " The European Commission has told Britain that it will lose up to 200 million pounds in grants for poorer regions unless it implements European Union laws to protect birds and their habitats " . 
I would like to know if the Commission is making these threats and , if it is , whether it feels that it has an entitlement to do so . 
That is a question which my German colleagues who are moving the other question want to follow up . 
The Environment Committee is very interested in finding ways of incorporating environmental considerations into other policies . 
The question is : is this a constitutionally viable way of doing that ? 
What we are exploring here tonight in this crowded House is the question of linkage . 
Linkage , in other words , using the threat of the withdrawal or withholding of funds to try to get better implementation of legislation in what may sometimes be a rather unconnected sector but in this case is quite a closely connected sector , is one that from time to time European Members of Parliament look at and then veer away from when they realise that it might affect the regions that they represent . 
That is something which we find reflected in the views not only of some of the German Members here tonight but also in some of my British colleagues . 
We need to ask to what extent the European Commission is prepared to use the provisions of Articles 12 and 41 of the general regulation on the structural funds to delay granting money where there is inadequate information on the impact of the projects which have applied for the money on the environment . 
At its worst , we want to avoid the possibility that the aims of the structural funds and the European Union ' s concern to protect its natural habitats may collide . 
For instance , you may want to build a motorway across one part of the European Union in order to spend structural fund money and bring jobs to that part of the Union , but should you not be careful if that motorway is being driven through what should have been designated a protected site by the national government ? 
Such possibilities have arisen in the past , especially in relation to major infrastructure projects . 
We want to avoid that , but we believe that such collisions could result form the failure of the Member States to implement the habitats directive and the birds directive also , and in particular to submit to the Commission by as early as June 1995 a list of sites potentially of Community importance , either as hosting natural habitat types or representing the habitats of animal and plant species of Community importance . 
We must ask : without such information , how can the Commission be certain that structural fund projects , which are usually large , will not damage sites potentially of European Union - wide importance ? 
Future generations will not forgive us if we allow irreplaceable habitats to be destroyed , whose preservation we actually voted for eight years ago when we adopted our report on the habitats directive and then again in 1997 with the changes to the annex of the directive . 
The fault lies with those Member States which have failed to observe the directive , and that includes my own . 
If doubt hangs over their entitlement to structural funds , that is the fault of national governments . 
That doubt has now fallen over the position of the United Kingdom and its entitlement to Structural Funds because the United Kingdom government has not fully implemented or complied with the provisions of the habitats directive . 
It is in the power of the United Kingdom government , the German government and other national governments to remove that threat by complying with the habitats and birds directive . 
In the United Kingdom , structural funding for counties such as Cornwall , which I represent and which has recently been granted Objective 1 status , faces a twin threat from government indolence on this directive and from government incompetence and meanness . 
Even if the European Commission uses its best efforts in the United Kingdom there is no guarantee that the scrooge - like United Kingdom Chancellor will find matching funding . 
Mr President , the FFH directive is an issue which has concerned us for some time now and we are currently experiencing a few teething problems . 
However , to begin let me say the following : the FFH directive is an important directive and creates a new climate in Europe for the protection of nature , the environment and birds . 
I would not want to change or spare anything in achieving this . 
I also find it encouraging that the Commission is consequently taking care that EU legislation is being implemented . 
All the same , in the case of the FFH directive the question arises as to whether the legislation which we have adopted is actually implementable and I can see obvious weak points . 
As I see it , the FFH directive is an instance where the legislation is not matched to the feasibilities of the regions . 
I see a problem in the various legal interpretations in the Member States due to the partially unclear definitions in the EU legislation , whilst , on the other hand , there is a lack of strong subsidiary aspects and approaches . 
Revision of the FFH directive , including the current difficulties in implementation , should not , I think be excluded . 
Alongside this general criticism of the FFH directive , however , I also see a particular problem with the amalgamation of the EU environmental and structural policies . 
Article 12 of the structural funds regulation adopted on 21 June 1999 provides for the possibility of sanctions in the event of violations in the following areas : implementation of environmental legislation , breaches of public contracts and failure to observe equality between men and women . 
To date , the Commission has only threatened sanctions in the case of the FFH directive . 
Does it also intend to initiate sanction mechanisms in the other areas ? 
In my opinion , this is a very problematic course of action . 
The EU has a quite different means of enforcing sanctions , i . e . the European Court of Justice . 
The possible cutting or withholding of money from the Structural Fund is a form of sanction whose effect on the regions concerned cannot just be disregarded . 
What will happen with projects which are already under way and what will happen , above all , in those cases where a region does not receive any money from the Structural Fund ? 
What sanctions will the Commission then impose for non - implementation of EU environment law ? 
That the Commission is also totally unsure is shown by the fact that it initially wanted to include the entire state in the sanctions , then only a region , as you pointed out to Environment Minister Trittin , Commissioner . 
I would ask that we make this point absolutely clear here . 
Mr President , hearing the debate unfold and watching my colleagues and the clock , I am not sure what I want any more : protected areas for fauna , flora and habitats or protected areas for ecologically minded delegates . 
At the moment , I am more interested in protected areas for delegates , but that is another matter . 
Our question to you , Commissioner , has another purpose . 
I would have liked to hear your answer first , but you have chosen to speak at the end of the debate . 
We are discussing something here of which most know the history . 
The fauna - flora - habitats legislation should have been implemented by 1994 - it is now the year 2000 . 
The European Union list of the relevant nature conservation sites should have been ready in 1998 - it is now the year 2000 . 
The Member States should have notified the Commission of their sites by 1995 - it is now the year 2000 . 
Many Member States , including my own , did not do as required . 
Germany , for example , implemented the legislation in 1998 instead of 1994 - only four years late . 
But what does it matter ? ! 
As a result , the European Union list is obviously not ready . 
And how could it be ? 
Many Member States and many regions have not announced their sites . 
Now Mr Schnellhardt has even suggested that perhaps we made a mistake with the fauna - flora - habitats directive . 
Perhaps , Mr Schnellhardt , you are right that it wasn ' t totally practical , it wasn ' t perfect , it wasn ' t quite right . 
Unfortunately , however , it is not the procedure in the European Union that if you don ' t like a piece of legislation you don ' t bother observing it . 
If that were the case , then there would also be areas and matters which you and I would not like . 
But we do have this unfortunate system in the European Union - what you call legal certainty . 
We do have this unfortunate system - it is what you call legislation , which has been adopted in this European Parliament with the consent of the Member States . 
It must be observed ! 
It might perhaps be a bit too strict and too legalistic , but that ' s the way it is : we are living in a European Union with a legal system . 
Mr Jarzembowski is the one who supports this most of all because he comes from Hamburg which is one of the few regions of Germany to be nominated , along with Berlin , my own area , although as city states we have it particularly easy , I think I can say with some justification . 
However , I do not want to pass sentence on Mr Schnellhardt , who comes from one of the new federal states who do not have things quite so good . 
That is an internal German problem which we will resolve at another time and in another place in the House . 
Today , Mr President , we are talking about the fact that Europe is losing its countryside and about the fact that Europe must observe legal certainty . 
I shall come to my final point : Commissioner , it you do not succeed in going to the European Court of Justice and bringing to account those Member States which are not properly implementing legislation , you will lose your authority and your legitimacy . 
You must do it ! 
If you think the legislation is no good , let us revise it . 
If you think it is sound , go to the European Court of Justice , and be quick about it ! 
Mr President , it is a pleasure to face the Commissioner for the fifth time today at this unearthly hour . 
I congratulate her for her efforts in trying to make sure that the habitats directive and associated directives are properly implemented . 
I wish her well . 
I have heard that some in the Commission believe that they have managed to squeeze more out of Member States in the past six months than they had in the previous six years . 
If that is the case then it is good news indeed . 
But the Commissioner is riding between two horses : one seeks to protect endangered species , the other seeks to assist the poorest parts of Europe . 
In fact , it is a position in which I too find myself to some extent . 
Some simple questions : how long is the Commissioner prepared to perform this balancing act ? 
Just how much must Member States do to meet her requirements ? 
Is she really prepared to tell people such as those whom I represent in Merseyside and the North - West of England that they must lose Structural Funds because their governments have failed to comply with the habitats directive ? 
That is the balance I suppose . 
Fundamentally and finally , is she prepared to compromise to find solutions , if the undertakings being given by government or the work being undertaken by governments takes longer than we would wish ? 
For example , if a Minister goes down on his knees , cut his wrists and writes a pledge in letters of blood that he will deliver the habitats directive in full within an agreed timetable , is she prepared to assist the region and provide structural funding in such circumstances ? 
 - The question on how the Structural Funds respect our environmental legislation is a critical one and I appreciate the interest expressed in this matter by Mrs Jackson , Mr Poettering and Mrs Schnellhardt . 
We had a discussion on this subject in the Commission meeting today particularly as regards the link to the habitats and the birds directives . 
The main principle is clear : the actions cofinanced under the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund should contribute to the protection and improvement of the environment in the European Union . 
This is confirmed in the new regulatory framework for the Structural Funds and Cohesion Fund and in the Commission ' s related guidelines . 
We should remember that both the Cohesion Fund and the Structural Funds finance important investments into environmental infrastructure such as waste water treatment facilities or waste management systems . 
Let me make one thing clear first to avoid misunderstandings . 
The general regulation on the Structural Funds states that ' operations financed must be in conformity with the provisions of the Treaty , with instruments adopted under it and with Community policies and actions '  . 
Contrary to the suggestion in one of the oral questions , this does not represent a new obligation on the Member States . 
In fact , it is based closely on the previous framework regulation on the Structural Funds for the programming period 1994 - 1999 . 
The Structural Funds Regulation has been approved by the Member States and the Council . 
With regard to protection of sites under the habitats and birds directives , it is important that we do not give money to measures which adversely affect sites deserving protection - paying out money with one hand and maybe fining a Member State with the other hand . 
This is what we confirmed in the Commission this afternoon , and Michel Barnier will set out our decisions in a letter to the Member States in a few days . 
In this regard , the Commission intends to use all the possibilities offered by the new regulatory framework for the Cohesion and Structural Funds . 
In following up the letter sent to Member States by Commissioners Wulf - Mathies and Bjerregaard on June 23 1999 , the Commission will insist that , in the programming documents for the period 2000 - 2006 , there must be a firm and irrevocable commitment guaranteeing that the programmes are consistent with the protection of sites under Natura 2000 . 
Member States will be required to notify sites if they have not already done so within an agreed timetable , and to guarantee formally that they will not undertake action leading to the deterioration of potential Natura 2000 sites . 
The Commission will then use all the means at its disposal to ensure that commitments entered into the programming documents are fully respected . 
It intends to monitor the situation in the Member States , including the use of on - the - spot checks . 
The Commission ' s representative in the monitoring committee for each programme will also seek to ensure that Member States ' obligations with regard to Natura 2000 are fully respected . 
In addition , should a Member State not honour its commitment to provide the lists under the habitats and birds directives within the timeframe set in the programming documents , the Commission will take immediate action . 
This includes in particular excepting specific situations and with respect to the principle of proportionality - possible recourse to the provisions of the Structural or Cohesion Fund regulations in relation to the suspension of payments . 
Of course , all this is in addition to the ongoing infringement procedures against a number of Member States for their failure to implement these directives . 
In summing up , what we decided in Commission today is that we will insist that Member States send us their Natura 2000 lists : they should already have been sent , as has been stated many years ago . 
We will use the means at our disposal to ensure that they honour the commitments that they have entered into . 
Without the lists neither the Member States nor the Commission can ensure that we protect important nature sites when carrying out Structural Fund operations , for the simple reason that we do not know where these sites are . 
One more word on the habitats directive . 
The Commission does not agree that there is a lack of clarity in this directive . 
The directive is intended to establish a frame of reference which , in accordance with the subsidiarity principle , leaves the detailed implementation to the Member States . 
While the Commission has no plans to revise the directive , its services are ready to provide guidance to the Member States on its implementation and we are finally starting to move on this . 
The only sites which the Commission takes into account under the habitats directive are those put forward by the authorities in the Member States . 
So - called shadow lists can only help in efforts to identify sites inside the Member States . 
At Community level , they can contribute to scientific reference material in the creation of inventories of natural habitats and existing species . 
Thank you for clarifying that matter , but we are still rather distressed at the statement you have just made because we were under the impression that the previous Commission was working on the simple principle of ' no lists , no funds '  . 
You are now going back on that principle ; you are going back to the Member States to ask them to provide the lists . 
They are seriously late . They have completely failed to meet the requirements of the European directives . 
So , today , it is still not clear to us whether you intend to utilise the technical , legal and political means available to you in order to enforce European directives . 
As a result , I can see the Member States laughing their socks off at this new position because , in the final analysis , once again they have gained a little more time and it is nature conservation which is going to suffer . 
From reading the various reports of the European Union , and the European Environment Agency , it is clear that environmental damage is still continuing . 
The question I am asking , then , is as follows : today , when accepting the draft Community support framework for Portugal , did you demand the list of protected sites under the terms of the directives ? 
Mr President , my first report as an MEP was on precisely the same topic as that which we are discussing here today : the environment and the Structural Funds . 
And , of course , I came to the basic conclusion that projects financed by the Structural Funds should not , under any circumstances , damage the environment of the Member States and , to that end , greater consideration should be given to the environmental dimension at all levels when programming and implementing the relevant Union policies . 
I still believe this today ; our main objective must always be sustainable development , i . e . development which respects and promotes the environment . 
Therefore , Parliament should take this line and call on the Commission , in its vote , to implement the Structural Fund programmes in a way which takes account of Community environmental legislation , particularly with regard to directives on the preservation of natural habitats and wild birds . 
At the same time , however , we should avoid over - reacting . We should not suspend all the programmes or refuse to approve any of them just because we cannot guarantee that the odd regulation will be upheld . 
This reminds me of a Greek proverb : you cannot chop off your head just because you have tooth ache . 
I am not suggesting that we contravene legislation . 
Rather , I am suggesting that we go ahead and implement the programmes and , at the same time , monitor the implementation of legislation and ensure that the Commission keeps Parliament informed . 
It is important to remember that very important measures and projects are financed under the Structural Funds in the most problematic countries and regions of the Union , countries and regions which desperately need help in their endeavours to develop and converge with the more developed Member States . 
We should also bear in mind , Mr President , that measures promoting the environment are often financed by the Structural Funds . 
If we were to suspend all the programmes without exception for the reason given by a number of speakers here , we would be doing our environment more harm than good . 
Mr President , there is no disagreement on the fact that we want to comply with this piece of legislation . 
I was surprised to see you quoted in my press as threatening to cut off European funding . 
I consider that to be a disproportionate action for what we are trying to achieve . 
You will know that in the case of the UK , at a moderation seminar , the Commission agreed a timetable to allow for review and inclusion of additional sites . 
In Paris a timetable was set to allow for a revised list to be presented in July with another moderation in October 2000 . 
We are determined , after years of foot - dragging by the previous Conservative Government - Mrs Jackson ' s party - to meet our requirements in the UK , in good faith , to follow the proper legal and proper consultation to ensure this directive is complied with . 
This process is ongoing and I have no reason to believe that any plans submitted for regional funding breached the EU habitats and wild bird directives at this stage . 
Therefore , I fail to understand or accept the linkage that is trying to be established through this resolution . 
But let us be clear . 
Any refusal by the Commission to approve the programme - for example , in Merseyside - thus undermining £ 2 billion worth of investment , or any other Objective I area , including Cornwall , involving 5 million people in the UK , would actually breach - you said this Commissioner - the well - established Commission principle of proportionality , namely the obligation to pursue the least restrictive way of ensuring compliance with EU legislation - in this case the habitats and wild bird directive . 
We therefore need to have a balanced relationship between means and ends . 
In the final analysis any breach of EU legislation must actually go the European Court of Justice . 
I cannot accept that such a balance means the cutting off of vital lifelines of EU funds to the poorest and neediest regions . 
Commissioner Barnier probably said to you today , Commissioner Wallström , that all European programmes should be able to start without undue delay because it can be extremely difficult to make up for lost time later on . 
I therefore ask the Commissioner to take collective responsibility for ensuring that Structural Fund programmes are implemented in time . 
That is your responsibility as a member of the college . 
Unlike the last speaker I would like to congratulate you , Commissioner , on your threat to cut off European funding . 
It should not just be an idle threat . 
You should carry it out if Member States do not act responsibly . 
I come from a Member State which benefits from European funding but I am appalled at its track record on the implementation of the wild birds directive , on the habitats directive and many other directives . 
We are , per capita , the worst country as regards complaints . 
It is about time the European Commission took action and decided that if you are not willing to abide by the rules then the funding has to be cut off . 
If this affects my own country , then so be it . 
Member States have to comply with European regulations . 
Former commissioners wrote to the Irish Government saying :  " If you do not have on your list habitat areas to be protected then when you put in your national plan how are we going to assess whether it is in compliance with European directives ? " 
You must stick to that . 
If Member States are not willing to comply with the directives , cut off the funding . 
I would support you one hundred percent . 
 -  ( PT ) Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , there are too many projects and programmes funded by the EU that do not comply with the objectives of sustainable development and nature conservation required by the Treaties and by secondary legislation . 
It is easy to demonstrate this : on the one hand , we allocate almost half of our resources to agriculture , but we nevertheless continue to fund an intensive form of farming designed to achieve high levels of productivity , whatever the cost , ignoring the support available for organic farming and extensive farming . 
On the other hand , we spend a third of our resources on the Structural Funds , but the projects funded under those funds are the first to contravene directives on habitats . 
Portugal is a perfect example of what I have just been talking about , and as it is a perfect example , it merits a thorough explanation . 
In Portugal there is not only no definitive list of protected sites of Community importance for inclusion in the Natura 2000 network , but even though it is compulsory , there are no plans , rules or mechanisms for the management and protection of sites that have already been selected . 
In other words , the Portuguese sites that already form part of the Natura 2000 network are completely at the mercy of unscrupulous groups of financiers and construction companies , because of the lack of instruments to protect them . 
The most serious case is that of the tourist development that has been approved for the Abano area of the Sintra - Cascais national park , and I call on the Commission to intervene in this as a matter of urgency . 
In Portugal , however , it is the state itself that is currently preparing to carry out projects , some of which are being funded by the Structural Funds , for sites which have been or will be classified by the EU as part of the Natura 2000 network . 
Unfortunately , what is happening in Portugal is not unique - it is merely a good example . 
I therefore hope that the Commission will bring its legal authority to bear and refuse to approve any funding for the third Community support framework until Member States send in their lists for the Natura 2000 network . 
Mr President , what is at stake in this debate is whether the EU ' s commitment to sustainable development in theory , actually means something in practice , whether when push comes to shove , we are prepared to make some very difficult decisions . 
Sustainable development is supposed to be about integrating economic development with environmental concerns . 
That is what the EU has signed up to in countless treaties from the Rio Earth Summit onwards . 
That is what Article 6 of our own EC Treaty obliges us to do - to integrate those policies . 
At the heart of this debate is the issue of economic development coming right up against environmental constraints . 
We are going to be increasingly faced with hard decisions on this . 
It will be a very good test of what our commitment to sustainable development really means . 
At a recent plenary session , we talked a lot about coherence in EU policies . 
Members from all over this House were rightly emphasising how important policy coherence is , yet here we have an outstanding example of policy incoherence . 
That is why the Greens are supporting very strongly this resolution from the Environment Committee . 
Mr President , Commissioner , I have listened to your address very carefully , but I have not fully understood it . 
I will read the communication from the Commission very carefully , but perhaps you can help me to understand matters . 
Are you of the opinion that the Commission can block entire approvals for plans , or is it just payment of funds for individual projects ? 
That was not at all clear . 
Let me say two or three things . 
Firstly , I think that Community law must be seen as a whole . 
Community law provides that if a Member State fails to implement legislation , or implements it incorrectly , the State will be brought to justice . 
You should do that ! 
You should not try to achieve through the back door , through the non - payment of money , what you are unable to achieve through legal action and orderly process . 
This is something which I do not think is quite right . 
If you are saying that Member States are contravening Community law , breaching Community law , then bring these Member States to justice ! 
But to fail to do this in favour of the back - door approach of trying to stop the payment of money in order to indirectly force the hand of the Member States is something that I quite simply consider to be wrong and even cowardly ! 
Secondly , Commissioner , the Structural Funds are not given out to damage the countryside . 
They are given out to create jobs and to kick - start the regions . 
We must not therefore , in order to achieve another objective , obstruct or abandon the original aim of supporting disadvantaged areas . 
What is more , it should not be the case that one Commissioner sets himself up as some sort of Supreme Commissioner who can then dictate to the other . 
None of us want anything for the environment to be left undone . 
But it isn ' t on , Mr President , Commissioner , that regions might suffer because Member States are failing in their duties ! 
Here too we must watch out ! 
