 -  ( PT ) Mr President , following the words of my colleagues which prove how necessary the resolution we are discussing actually is , I should like to use my speaking time to condemn two particularly damaging cases which affect my country , Galicia , but which could equally be taking place in other European countries . 
In Pontevedra , practically within the city limits , and occupying a particularly sought - after location by the sea , the huge industrial chemicals complex built by the public companies ENCE and ELNOSA , which produce cellulose pulp and chlorine , is contaminating water and air with the connivance of the Galician and Spanish authorities and in spite of the continuing protests of the local population . 
In Vila Garcia de Arousa , repositories have been installed in a wharf financed by the ERDF to hold 80 000 cubic metres of hydrocarbons , which pose a serious threat to fishing and related activities which provide jobs for 18 000 people , if these hydrocarbons are handled on a regular basis or if accidents with transporting vessels occur . 
Mr President , I believe the issue of ensuring integrated and correct implementation of the Community ' s environmental policy is perhaps the greatest challenge facing the Member States today . 
Unfortunately , however , the requirements of environmental policy are not being respected and are not being properly incorporated when programmes and projects are formulated and approved in the Member States . 
The problem is in fact much worse ; in addition to the fact that environmental legislation is being contravened in projects and programmes which have received Community approval and funding , it is also being contravened during the implementation of projects and programmes in receipt of private or national funding . 
I should just like to draw your attention to paragraph b and point 3 and 8 of the resolution which takes account of precisely this issue . 
It is absurd for EU environmental legislation not to be applied or respected for all projects in the Member States , irrespective of whether they require Community or some other type of funding . 
We should make it quite clear to countries which contravene environmental legislation that the Commission , which is the guardian of primary and secondary Community law , will ensure that the environment is not damaged when projects are constructed . 
This flagrant violation of our basic environmental laws must not be allowed to continue . 
We need , once and for all , to come out and say what is happening in the Member States , because transparency , courage and the truth are the best policy . 
And the truth is that the directives for the Natura 2000 network have been inadequately implemented both in my country and in other Member States . 
For example , despite the fact that the Maliakos Gulf and the wetlands of the Sperkhios river have been designated as conservation areas under the Natura 2000 network , there are proposals to bridge the Maliakos Gulf , in violation of Community law , despite the fact that an alternative solution could be found . 
I therefore insist and we call on the Commission to ensure that EU environmental legislation is properly implemented and respected in all projects and , if need be , to take recourse to the European Court , as another speaker has suggested , and propose huge fines and take a strict line . 
Mr President , I cannot resist starting by saying it is well - known that my Irish colleague across the way lives in the capital city of Dublin where these sites will not be troubling her too much . 
Having said that I support the thrust of what is before us here today and the ability of the Commission to use as a carrot - and - stick approach the Structural Funds to encourage in perhaps the most effective way recalcitrant Member States such as Ireland , to get their house in order in relation to the Natura 2000 sites . 
No Member State has fully met the requirements of the habitats directive , for example , let alone met them within the legally - binding timetable . 
Commission procedures are under way against nearly every Member State - 12 Member States in fact - under the habitats directive at the moment . 
Twelve European countries are before the European Court . 
The wild birds directive is little better with 13 countries currently facing a legal challenge for failure to comply with the directive 20 years after it was agreed . 
It looks as if there are six countries currently at risk for delays or rejections of proposals for the use of Structural Funds , including my own , the UK , certain German Länder , France , Sweden and Belgium . 
Only last December I raised this issue in the Irish Senate and cited all the various directives - mainly environmental directives - we had failed to transpose within the timetable or years after the deadline for transposition had taken place . 
Constitutional challenge is often quoted in Ireland as one of our reasons . 
Indeed our written constitution with protection for property rights has proved very difficult for the government to get over many of the issues in relation to designation of sites . 
But with the principle of proportionality well respected , proposals to use the structural funds in this regard will help countries like Ireland to focus on what they actually need to do . 
In this regard I have proposed tomorrow two amendments to item 2 and item 3 , adding a word :  " to ensure that EU - funded programmes do not cause ' unauthorised ' damage or destruction to actual or potential protected sites " . 
Perhaps you will take those on board in items 2 and 3 of the motion . 
