Madam President , by tabling amendments to the chocolate directive , we have tried to offer better protection to those consumers who would like to know whether they are buying real chocolate or a product which , instead of cocoa butter , also contains fats of another origin . 
However , these amendments were not adopted , unfortunately . 
As a consequence , we remain concerned about the third - world cocoa producers . 
We predict that , despite any improvements for the benefit of producers of other vegetable fats , the overall outcome will , in any case , be harmful to the third world . 
It is regrettable that the study into the impact of the new directive for the countries in the South was not carried out earlier . 
From now on , chocolate is no longer a product which consists of nothing but cocoa butter . 
In some parts of the Union , the name ' chocolate ' was already used , even if the product contained substitute products . 
We regret that the standardisation we have achieved is to the detriment of the consumer and the cocoa producer , and was dictated by the pursuit of profit . 
Madam President , the traditional dictionary definition of chocolate is a foodstuff made from cocoa beans roasted or ground with sugar , vanilla and other seasonings . Yet it seems that another definition is now emerging . 
This states that chocolate is the former name for an authentic , healthy and quality product , produced in its day according to ancestral tradition and to which some delightfully outdated nostalgia - seekers are still attached . 
This new definition goes on to say that this name is now used to designate a black , brown or white product , or one of any other colour , made with vegetable or industrial fats , or in fact anything else provided that the end result finds a market and preferably a world one at that . 
This is the essence of the new directive before us today , if applied to the letter , which could end up replacing the definition of chocolate as we know it . Clearly , the alternative products are a speciality of the industrial lobby which seems to have inspired this amazing directive . 
Once again it seems that the law of business or , in other words , the law of the strongest has been preferred over the protection of consumers , SMEs and our craftsmen . . . 
 ( The President cut the speaker off ) 
Mr President , given the disastrous vote just now on the chocolate issue , I must say that I am not particularly proud of what we have approved . 
It should be pointed out that the European Parliament has taken responsibility for altering the very composition of chocolate by allowing the introduction of vegetable oils and fats other than cocoa butter . 
The European Parliament is clearly not in tune with public opinion in several respects . 
Firstly , its position does not correspond to the demands of consumers who want clear labelling . 
We have not granted them this labelling on chocolate . 
Parliament is also not in tune with public opinion which is becoming increasingly reticent about GMOs . 
We have rightly refused to allow GMOs in chocolate , but only by three votes . 
In addition , we have applied the precautionary principle by refusing the prior studies on the impact which this directive will have on the producing countries and so on . 
Nothing has changed . 
The question to be asked is who really benefits from the manipulation and . . . 
 ( The President cut the speaker off ) 
Mr President , I taste sweet victory for British chocolate producers in our vote today in their fight to have good British chocolate recognised across Europe as the delicious , high - quality product that it is . 
The victors are not just British chocolate makers but chocolate consumers right across Europe who will now be free to wallow in the delight of Dairy Milk , Galaxy and Milky Way at will . 
Clear labelling will enable consumers to choose and enjoy the chocolate that they want . 
Their taste buds will no longer be deprived by Europe ' s chocolate police . 
Developing countries are also the victors . 
This legislation takes account of the needs of the world ' s poorest farmers . 
Those vegetable fats permitted will be of tropical origin , and there will also be a review of the impact of the directive after three years . 
Best of all , the directive will increase chocolate sales overall , thereby increasing the market for developing countries ' exports . 
So chocoholics can now munch safe in the knowledge they are doing their bit for the Third World . 
I am sure you will agree that the EU , in the past , has got itself into a right Twix on this matter . 
Some governments have got their Snickers in a twist trying to protect their chocolate industries . 
For them , however , Crunchie time has come and they now have Creme Egg on their faces . 
It is high time the European Parliament gave two Cadbury ' s Fingers to the chocolate snobs . 
 - It is now sixteen years since the debate on chocolate started in the European Parliament . 
I believe that we should not even have become involved in this directive . 
Debates about national tastes and products give us too far wide a sphere for ridiculous discussions . 
Consumer choice will be exercised regardless of what the EU does , and that is only fair . 
National chauvinism has been all too often evident in the chocolate debate . 
The European Commission ' s directive authorising certain vegetable fats which are cheaper than cocoa butter to be used in the composition of chocolate clearly serves the interests of the five multinationals which share three - quarters of the European market . 
Given that the resultant product incorrectly referred to as chocolate will not be any cheaper , consumers will not gain in the purchase price what they will lose in transparency with regard to the nature of the product . 
Although we do not share the protectionist concerns hiding behind the defence of ' real chocolate '  , we do not see any reason to vote for the Commission directive . 
After more than two years of prevarication , the Council finally adopted in October 1999 a common position on the directive relating to cocoa and chocolate products . 
As it stands , this text does not allow the interests of consumers , small - scale chocolate makers or cocoa producers to be protected . It also does not guarantee the quality of chocolate . 
Instead it allows the widespread use of vegetables fats other than cocoa butter , fails to provide precise information to the consumer and attaches little importance to the absence of a reliable method of analysing and measuring the fats present in chocolate . 
This proposal in no way responds to the concerns expressed by MEPs during the vote at first reading on 23 October 1998 . 
This text opens the door to the industrial production of cocoa butter equivalents based on palm oil , the price of which is significantly lower than that of cocoa . 
Its adoption could lead to a dramatic fall in income for the eleven million people earning a living from cocoa in West Africa and for all the producing regions . 
To help us swallow this bitter pill , an attempt has been made to give the text a social aftertaste by claiming that it defends the interests of the poorest shea butter producing countries such as Mali or Burkina Faso . 
However , there is no guarantee that the chocolate industry will use shea nut oil which , in any case , can only replace 50 % of the cocoa butter . 
This is a largely artificial conflict between cocoa producers and shea producers , between poor countries and even poorer countries . 
In reality , this proposed directive mainly reflects the position of the chocolate multinationals and defends only their interests with any certainty . 
I am therefore not happy about this . 
This is why I fully support the amendments which place greater importance on the concerns of small - scale chocolate makers , the interests of consumers and the future of millions of small - scale cocoa producers . 
Firstly I must congratulate the rapporteur on his tenacity in this ' chocolate ' issue . 
Next I will sketch the broad outlines of this issue . 
In 1996 , the European Commission proposed amending the 1973 directive which authorised the United Kingdom , Ireland and Denmark to derogate from the applicable rules by replacing part of the cocoa butter in chocolate with other vegetable fats up to a maximum of 5 % of the total weight . 
With the accession of new Member States , the number of countries authorising vegetable fats other than cocoa butter increased to seven with the addition of Finland - which authorises 10 %  - Austria , Portugal and Sweden . 
The eight other Member States - Germany , Belgium , Spain , France , Greece , Italy , Luxembourg and the Netherlands - ban vegetable fats . 
The current proposal therefore aims to give Member States the option of authorising the addition of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter to chocolate products up to a maximum of 5 % of the total weight of the finished product . 
This has clearly succeeded in causing some occasionally stormy debates and has particularly revived legitimate concerns among consumers . 
The latter felt particularly threatened some years ago when Europe , through certain harmonisation directives , tried to impose ' Euro - products ' on us and they have demonstrated their desire to defend their culinary traditions . 
A campaign has subsequently developed to promote food quality at the same time as food diversity . 
In this case , although it is indisputable that Member States using vegetable fats instead of cocoa butter should be entitled to market their products , the question is whether these can be legitimately marketed under the name ' chocolate '  . 
The replacement of cocoa butter with other vegetable fats raises a question about protecting the very nature of chocolate . 
Adequate guarantees must therefore be provided for both consumers and cocoa producers . 
We must demand the following : 
a method of analysis allowing the exact content of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter to be determined . This requirement was not specified by the European Commission and has unfortunately not been included in the Council ' s common position . 
However , I still believe that this is an essential condition to ensure respect for the 5 % rule ; 
very explicit wording intended for consumers so that they can buy chocolate in full knowledge of the facts ; 
the reservation of the name ' quality chocolate ' for products which contain cocoa butter ; 
the restriction of alternative vegetable fats to tropical fats not obtained using enzymatic production processes and not originating from genetic engineering ; 
a study into the impact of such a measure on the export of cocoa by developing countries . 
I support these demands which are contained in the amendments tabled by the rapporteur . I myself am a consumer who is concerned about the quality and taste of traditional chocolate . 
I also believe that consumer protection policy , elevated to the rank of a Community policy , does not just involve food safety and the protection of health . 
It must aim to promote quality food which is part of a more general philosophy of quality of life ! 
This proposed directive dating from 1996 is connected with the harmonisation of the internal market . The Commission is therefore giving Member States the option to authorise the addition of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter to chocolate products up to a maximum of 5 % of the total weight of the finished product . 
The directive also provides for the marketing of these chocolate products containing vegetable fats in all Member States , subject to a label which lists the ingredients . 
I agree with the rapporteur that we should go back to the text adopted at first reading in this House in 1997 and that we should not authorise this addition and this marketing . I still believe that the name ' quality chocolate ' should be reserved for chocolate which does not contain any alternative vegetable fats . 
A study into the impact of such a measure on developing countries ' cocoa exports should be recommended . Finally , I still want clear and precise labelling for consumers . 
This is a position of principle which is not really open to negotiation , just like the protection of quality products and consumers which we all are . 
This is why I encourage this House to vote for the amendments tabled by our rapporteur and , in so doing , to take a stand against the position of the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy . 
This is all cock - eyed . 
In a Europe which claims to want to protect the consumer and which talks of quality and authenticity labels , here we have a common position from the Council which aims to change the nature of what has , up to now , been a quality product , namely chocolate , rather than upset the food multinationals . 
What is even more astonishing is that this same Europe produces mad cows , sheep with scrapie and chickens containing dioxin and imports hormone - treated beef and genetically modified cereals . 
Of course we should ' inform ' consumers that the products they are buying are adulterated . 
Yet this is nonsensical when this information is written in small letters in an incomprehensible language on the back of the packaging . 
You are accustomed to doing anything you like in the name of your dogmas , free movement , free competition and free trade . 
Please stop messing about with our gastronomic traditions , our quality products and our soil . 
Stop playing with our food . 
Now that would be real progress . 
Understand this . I and my colleagues on the European right will vote for the ' zero option ' which is no vegetable fats other than cocoa butter in chocolate . 
Who would have believed it ? 
More than twenty - five years after the first debate on chocolate in the European Parliament and I am again involved in a discussion on the big question of whether a product can be called chocolate when it is not made exclusively from cocoa butter . 
Today , as twenty - five years ago , this question has divided this House to the point that my Group did not produce a voting list and group discipline could not be imposed , which I love in such a case . 
I can therefore freely come out in favour of the solution which seems best to me for the producers of real chocolate , as appreciated by the gourmets who believe in calling a spade a spade and calling chocolate chocolate , provided that it is actually made with cocoa butter . 
I deeply regret that we could not agree on the solution which seemed to me to be the most sensible which was that the name ' chocolate ' should be reserved for products containing 100 % of vegetable fats originating from cocoa and that the presence of other fats should be clearly indicated in the packaging of products containing these . In this way the consumer could be informed and not led astray , given of course that the marketing of these products in the single market would be guaranteed . 
In terms of chocolate , as in other areas , different cultures and traditions exist . 
Everyone has different tastes . 
In addition to the ' product quality and taste ' aspect there is , of course , the ' development policy ' aspect . 
The ACP countries fear losses of income in the region of 160 million dollars if our large industrial chocolate producers use up to 5 % of other vegetable fats , with this percentage being the recommended figure but not actually being verifiable . 
The situation being as it is , I would have preferred the common position to be rejected in the same way that I prefer good handmade chocolate to an industrial product which is currently unverifiable . 
Unfortunately , a small majority in this House has failed to ensure that consumers can enjoy real chocolate . 
 .  ( PT ) We fundamentally reject the principle of allowing chocolate to be produced throughout the Member States using a percentage of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter . 
This is for reasons connected with safeguarding the legitimate interests of cocoa - producing countries and also reasons relating to consumer protection . 
It is quite clear that a step of this kind would inevitably have an adverse effect on cocoa - producing countries . 
Furthermore , and this is the key reason for our views , consideration has not even been given to a study on the impact of such a measure on developing countries that produce cocoa . 
At the same time , allowing up to 5 % vegetable fats other than cocoa butter to be used in chocolate production sets a dangerous precedent , given that , in the long term , it may lead not just to the use of a higher percentage of these fats than set at present , but it may also open the way to chocolate being produced with other kinds of fat in future , including even genetically modified fats . 
Furthermore , it is clear that there is still no reliable method for testing the quantity of such fats used in chocolate production , whilst there is no requirement for clear , compulsory labelling which would , as a minimum , allow consumers to distinguish real chocolate , which only uses cocoa butter , from chocolate whose ingredients include other fats . 
This directive alters the very definition of chocolate which should , in our opinion , be made from cocoa butter and beans . 
We do not have the right to mislead the consumer by using the name ' chocolate ' to designate products which are not necessarily made from cocoa . 
Consumers require clear and specific information . 
They should no longer be deceived . 
Today ' s vote went beyond the problem of chocolate alone and has threatened the confidence of our fellow citizens . 
This is why I voted for all the amendments which aimed to improve this directive and which were tabled by the Committee on the Environment , Public Health and Consumer Policy . 
 -  ( DA ) The basis for prosperity in the EU is competition . 
And the intention in adopting a new directive on chocolate products is precisely to improve competition in the EU . 
With regard to food policy and consumer protection , we must be very careful . 
But this is not a question of health or environmental protection . 
It is exclusively a question of the extent to which , without any risk to health , we are to permit free competition in the chocolate industry so that all chocolate producers can sell their chocolate in all EU countries and not only in the seven countries which have so far permitted the aforesaid vegetable fats . 
Seen from the consumers ' point of view , it is exclusively a question of taste . 
It cannot therefore be right for politicians to decide what consumers should be entitled to choose between . 
Products should be put on sale , and it should be clear what they contain , but otherwise we must rely upon consumers ' own judgement . 
We can hardly do otherwise . 
Consumers should find out for themselves what tastes best . 
If , today , we are obliged to note considerable opposition to the proposal here in Parliament , this cannot be viewed as anything other than an attempt on the part of certain chocolate manufacturers to curb competition . 
If one looks at where the opposition is coming from , it is also clear that it crosses the Group divide and comes mainly from those countries which are already using current rules to protect their chocolate industries . 
Despite the commendable efforts of Mr Lannoye , I personally voted against this text which aims to authorise the addition of 5 % of vegetable fats to chocolate . This is the very type of European regulation which leads to a lack of understanding among our fellow citizens and which prepares the ground for Euro - scepticism . 
Where a clear and unambiguous labelling obligation would have been sufficient to allow the marketing of all the types of chocolate available in Europe , one of those grotesque compromises at which we are so adept has been proposed . 
Instead of no vegetable fats as specified in eight Member States or 10 % as specified in other Member States , the knife has fallen at 5 % for the whole of Europe ! This 5 % of vegetable fats , which of course cannot be verified , will be of greatest benefit to the chocolate industry which will soon flood the market with cheap imitation chocolate , thereby causing an increase in the price of real chocolate which will become a luxury product for privileged consumers . 
Will we now harmonise the composition of tomato ketchup , mustard , cooked meats , cheese , beer or pizzas , all in the name of a single market aiming to promote a single taste solely for the benefit of the food business ? 
Although it is legitimate , out of concern for public health , to lay down legislation on manufacturing processes and the traceability of products , it is not legitimate to impose a standard food style for the whole of Europe solely in the interests of ' big business '  . 
Although the construction of the internal market is a way to strengthen Europe in the face of world competition , this must not lead to a totalitarian dogma and meddling at all levels of our home life . 
In particular , the diversity of Europe ' s gastronomy and food customs is part of its heritage and culture , if only at the cost of local specialities foreign to the internal market . 
The people of Europe do not want this to be a place with standardised consumers living in a large uniform internal market . 
They expect major political ambition from Europe , not punctilious regulations of secondary importance . 
The misadventures of the new ' chocolate directive ' primarily illustrate the extraordinary weight and slowness of the Community ' s legislative process . 
Introduced at the Edinburgh Council in 1992 , the ' simplification ' of the 1973 directive became a Commission proposal only in 1996 and was considered at first reading by this House in 1997 . It has taken another two and a half years for the Council to adopt a common position which is before us today . 
Has such a long process at least resulted in a practical text ? 
The answer is clearly no . 
The new directive does not meet any of the relevant needs . 
The 1973 directive clearly and unambiguously defined chocolate as a product made with sugar and cocoa . 
To take account of the food customs of certain northern countries , derogations were specified . 
The situation was therefore satisfactory . 
So why change it ? 
Why , under the pretext of ' simplification '  , has it actually been attempted to subvert the 1973 directive ? 
Might the rest of the acquis communautaire no longer be untouchable ? 
In effect , if the content of the directive is being changed , this is due to the pressure of the five multinationals - Nestlé , Suchard , Mars , Cadbury and Ferrero - which already share over 70 % of the European market but whose production capacity is hindered by the current dual legislation . 
A site located in France , for example , cannot produce chocolate which does not meet the French standards . These stipulate that chocolate cannot contain vegetable fats other than cocoa butter . 
However , these multinationals particularly want to minimise the cost of their raw materials and do not care that this will be at the cost of a change in the composition of chocolate . 
Cocoa butter represents 8 to 9 % of the total price of chocolate . 
Shea butter costs a third of the price of cocoa butter and palm oil butter is ten times cheaper . 
By adopting a list of alternatives to cocoa butter and by specifying a percentage , this new directive is opening the door to further changes and this is the heart of the matter . 
Tomorrow , the percentage will simply have to be increased and then soya , for example , could be added to the vegetable fats proposed today . 
Shea butter will have played its role as an alibi . Its producers will then experience the same problems which are now going to be suffered by cocoa producers given the fall in prices which will follow the adoption of a directive which resolutely ignores its own development consequences and cynically postpones their examination indefinitely . 
To achieve their aim of being able to produce and sell imitation chocolate under the name of chocolate at a lower price throughout the Union , these multinationals have worked ceaselessly to make the 1973 derogations the rule , regardless of the interests of chocolate makers and cocoa producers . 
The common position fully grants their demands by proposing to establish , as a uniform and compulsory rule for all fifteen Member States , a derogation which used to correspond to a food custom confined to just a few States . 
Will this at least increase the level of requirements and quality for all Member States ? 
Not at all . 
In fact , quite the contrary . 
As usual , harmonisation is occurring at the lowest common denominator . 
It is the lowest quality level which will be generalised in order to ultimately impose a standardised Euro - taste , to the detriment of taste quality . 
Paradoxically , the burden of proof for quality will fall on the small - scale chocolate maker who can be comforted by the fact that he is not prohibited from indicating that he has not added vegetable fats other than cocoa butter ! 
Will the new text at least allow the consumer to easily distinguish between true and imitation chocolate ? 
The answer is no because the text of the directive is dishonest . It specifies the option of introducing into the chocolate manufacturing process an extremely precise percentage of 5 % of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter , whereas everyone knows that we do not have a reliable method of analysis allowing this percentage to be verified . 
The Commission is therefore setting a percentage which it knows is unverifiable . 
This is deceitful . 
The text also contains dishonest provisions in terms of labelling . 
On Mr Lannoye ' s initiative , this House rightly adopted at first reading an amendment specifying the obligation to place , on the front of the product , clearly legible wording indicating the presence of vegetable fats other than cocoa butter . 
As this amendment was not retained by the Council , the consumer will not be correctly informed . 
In all countries and for all consumers with a taste for real chocolate , the name ' chocolate ' can now legally cover a completely different product . 
Through a Community mechanism which is constantly diluting everyone ' s responsibility , the definition of one of our basic foodstuffs is being changed , solely for the purpose of allowing a few multinationals to maximise their profits . 
Chocolate lovers , religiously savour your next Easter eggs ! 
This will be the last time you can be sure that they have been made with real pre - harmonisation chocolate . 
What will be next after chocolate ? 
When labelling comes in the door , sense flies out the window . . . 
This is a distinctive label used throughout Europe which we want to imbue with renewed vigour . 
Like the French NF Environnement mark , this label is voluntary which means that it is up to manufacturers to apply for it . 
It is based on the principle of a global approach which takes account of the whole life cycle of the product . 
However , we must not cast aside all the national logos . 
Consumers and buyers have their own codes and have built up their confidence on the logos which they know . 
Any attempt to replace the national logos would end up once again confusing the people of Europe who are lost among a forest of markings including lists of ingredients , quality labels , logos and references to regions . 
You could almost imagine yourself faced with a bar of chocolate ! 
As our main goal is to help SMEs gain access to these essential Community eco - labels , we support the rapporteur . 
 - Madam President , I wholeheartedly support Europe ' s moves to become an eco - friendly continent . 
This measure is yet further proof of the EU ' s commitment to greening up its act . 
Since 1992 , the Euro - Flower logo has become a hallmark of environmentally - friendly products , ranging from washing machines to writing paper . 
However , consumers ' enthusiasm for green goods has yet to be matched by industry . 
The measures contained in this 3 - year strategy , however , should hopefully bring manufacturers on board . 
In the fight to clean up our planet , Britain ' s Labour Government has , of course , been at the forefront . 
At Kyoto , for example , Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott secured , against the odds , an agreement to cut global emissions . 
Britain is already well on the way to achieving its target of cutting carbon dioxide emissions by 20 % by 2010 . 
Not content with that , the Government has recently raised the target to 60 - 70 % by 2050 . 
This House should challenge other Member States to match Britain ' s example . 
They will get their chance to pick up the gauntlet at the forthcoming Kyoto follow - up Conference in The Hague this November . 
Of course , protecting the planet means much more than just cleaning up the atmosphere . 
It means protecting the natural environment on the ground too . 
Again , Britain ' s Labour Government is leading the way . 
Its recent Wildlife Bill , for example , will give greater protection to endangered species than ever before . 
Furthermore ,  ' right to roam ' legislation will give the British public the freedom to enjoy and appreciate our beautiful countryside . 
Madam President , coherent action is urgently required at local , national and European levels to clean up our land , sea and air . 
The Euro - Flower is just one element of the broader environmental strategy that is needed to save our planet . 
Our citizens want to see concrete action . 
They do not want to see mere hot air from politicians , which just adds to global warming . 
By harnessing Euro - Flower power , we can all contribute to a cleaner , greener world . 
Recommendation for second reading of the Blokland report ( A5 - 0056 / 2000 ) 
 - Blokland rightly raises serious concerns regarding waste disposal , including incineration . 
Coming from a country with over 90 % landfill use , I face the conclusion that properly controlled incineration is both necessary and inevitable . 
Commitment by the Irish Government to serious recycling and separation of waste is far from evident . 
Separation of waste , including use of organic waste for composting , must be a priority in any waste strategy . 
Waste management is a very complex issue subject to extensive lobbying . 
This is why the European Union has adopted a comprehensive strategy to tackle this major environmental and health challenge . 
The directive before us today is part of this strategy as it aims to regulate the thermal treatment of hazardous or non - hazardous waste . 
I myself have always been doubtful about the incineration of hazardous waste being dealt with in the same legislation as the incineration of non - hazardous waste . 
I therefore raised my concerns and questions at first reading . 
Regrettably , in my opinion , a majority has approved co - incineration . 
This is why I am now fighting for measures to be adopted in order to guarantee that emission standards for hazardous waste will not be diluted . 
Everyone knows that the volume of waste to be incinerated in the European Union is set to increase . 
Thirty - one million tonnes of municipal waste were incinerated in 1990 and this figure will be in excess of 56 million this year . 
There are several reasons for this , including the increase in the volume of waste produced and the fall in the quantity of waste sent to landfills . 
It is well known that the incineration of waste causes emissions of substances which seriously pollute the air , soil and water and which are therefore dangerous to health . 
The pollutants emitted depend both on the nature of the waste to be treated and the technologies used to treat this waste . 
This is why our concerns focus on the emissions of heavy metals , dioxins and furanes . 
The debate has particularly crystallised around co - incineration plants . 
These use hazardous waste as fuel for the production of energy or physical elements . 
Although the provisions of the applicable directives impose a maximum limit of 40 % of hazardous waste in the fuel used , this percentage is too high ! 
These plants must be subject to very strict control standards , at least as strict as those imposed on incinerators . 
In addition , the generalised use of this hazardous waste must not lead to the production of this waste becoming acceptable . 
We are at great risk of being told in the future that , as investments have been made to build these co - incinerators , we must now make these profitable ! 
I firmly reject these arguments in advance as they will lead to an increase in the volume of hazardous waste being transported with all the risks which this entails for the environment and safety . 
To conclude , although offences must be penalised and authorities must be assisted in bringing their incinerators up to standard , it must be stressed that our priority is , and must , remain the prevention of waste production , whether this is hazardous or non - hazardous waste . 
 - The European Union has been at the forefront in devising new waste management strategies in recent years . 
In fact , the object of the directive we are discussing here today is to reduce the adverse effects of incineration on the environment and on human health by considerably reducing the emission levels of several major pollutants into the air . 
This directive also seeks to control the discharge of waste into our water systems . 
This report is now before us at second reading . 
I note that one of the recommendations from the European Council is that , if an operator of a plant incinerating non - hazardous waste intends to start incinerating hazardous waste , an integrated pollution prevention and control licence must be secured . 
I believe that this is a particularly sensible proposal . 
It is very important that the European Union is very active in putting in place new waste management proposals . 
Waste in Europe has been generated at a rate of over 1kg per person per day . 2 billion tonnes of waste are being generated within the EU each year . 
The European Union is clear about one aspect of our waste disposal problem . The future of waste disposal does not lie in local authorities up and down the length and breadth of this country searching for new landfill sites . 
There is a growing concern about the environmental consequences of landfill sites in general . 
Nothing less than a major shift from reliance on landfill sites to more integrated waste management plans will suffice . 
The European Union fully supports the strict , ambitious but attainable recycling and recovery targets that have been laid down by the Irish Government . 
These targets , which are to be achieved over the next fifteen years , include the following : - 
 · A diversion of 50 % of overall household waste from landfill sites . 
 · A minimum 65 % reduction in bio - degradable waste presently consigned for landfill sites . 
 · The development of waste recovery facilities , employing environmentally beneficial technologies capable of treating up to 300 000 tonnes of bio - degradable waste per annum . 
All these measures reflect changing public opinions on the issue of waste management . 
The day of landfill sites is now coming to an end and they must be replaced by more environmentally beneficial technologies . 
There is unanimous support for this position across all the fifteen Member States of the European Union . 
 .  ( FR ) The enormous volume of waste generated by our industrialised urban societies is undoubtedly one of the major challenges to be overcome by the European Union in the 21st century . 
Imperceptibly , the planet is gradually being swamped with waste and each year another 2 billion tonnes are produced by the Member States . 
In view of this , waste management according to the law of the least immediate cost is not acceptable . 
The waste treatment industry , which employs tens of thousands of people and makes billions of euros , is flourishing due to this growing need . It will certainly have to be very inventive if it is to correctly carry out its task without itself causing pollution under the guise of waste recovery , given that incineration discharges heavy metal particles and dioxins into the atmosphere , that cleaning generates unwanted sludge and certain recycled materials have not found a market . 
The best possible protection for the environment and health therefore lies in the major progress to be made in implementing waste management legislation . The transposition of this legislation is actually far from satisfactory according to a recent Commission report . 
The Member States and their industries must therefore be urged to quickly take the steps necessary to adapt . The former must adapt their national legislation according to environment protection and precautionary principles and the latter must adapt their techniques in order to eradicate and not just displace the problem of pollution . 
However , at the same time , the European Parliament would be well - advised to come up with realistic ways of achieving objectives which are feasible , rather than allowing its lyrical instincts and idealism to dominate to the detriment of its credibility . 
On environmental matters , it is by doing what is immediately possible that we will have a chance of achieving what is desirable in the long term . 
This is why the UEN Group has not supported the amendments which are inapplicable in our Member States and whose anticipated economic consequences could prove to be very harmful . 
Otherwise , as a local elected representative , I hope that the merger and simplification of the Community directives will clarify and streamline the regulatory framework in which the departmental waste management plans must be established . 
The adoption of this directive on waste incineration , which will come into force with effect from 2005 , will considerably improve the current waste management framework in Europe , by giving higher priority to important criteria such as public health and the protection of citizens ' rights . 
Furthermore , if this directive were to come into force immediately , rather than in 2005 as is unfortunately the case , it would be virtually impossible for the Portuguese Government to continue with its co - incineration strategy . 
As it is , given that this directive imposes strict technical , legal and operational restrictions on all incineration and co - incineration processes across Europe , it will become more obvious that the strategy being pursued in Portugal is deeply flawed . 
Accordingly , although I would have liked to go further with restrictions on incineration and co - incineration processes , I am nevertheless delighted with what has been achieved , given that this directive : 
1 . Establishes stricter limit values for emissions , in particular those of carbon oxides and particulates . 
2 . Will put incineration and co - incineration plants on the same footing in terms of limit values , removing the special status granted to co - incineration plants . 
3 . States without any doubt whatsoever that incineration and co - incineration may only be used as a last resort , once all other technical avenues have been explored . 
4 . Sets extremely rigid conditions for overall waste management and for the siting and size of incineration and co - incineration plants , which must be complied with before permission can be granted to any authority . 
5 . Increases the relevant authorities ' powers of intervention in case of non - compliance with limit values at installations . 
6 . Drastically reduces the scope for using the end waste from incineration and co - incineration , particularly in civil engineering projects . 
7 . Makes continuous sampling of dioxins a compulsory requirement in incineration and co - incineration processes . 
8 . Increases the role of the public in decision making on the siting of installations . 
9 . Makes it compulsory to publish an annual environmental report on compliance with limit values . 
10 . Considerably limits the present derogations for cement kilns . 
11 . For the first time sets a limit value for emissions of ammonia , NH3 , in view of the atmospheric acidification caused by this chemical product . 
The proposed directive on waste incineration is a complex and technical document whose environmental and economic implications must be carefully considered . 
At first reading the European Parliament really made its mark on the issue by proposing the merger of two directives on the incineration of domestic waste and the incineration of hazardous waste . 
I now believe that the common position submitted by the Council is a very good compromise which I can support . 
However , I must make one specific point about co - incineration in cement works and justify my vote against two amendments . 
I voted against the first part of Amendment No 25 , amending Annex II , which sets emission limit values for the cement industry and in particular the value of 15 mg / m3 for dust . 
The majority of the Member States currently have limit values of 50 mg / m3 . 
In a recent cost - benefit analysis , the Commission concluded that values of 30 mg / m3 are the best compromise . 
To impose limit values of 15 mg / m3 would involve an excessive environmental cost and would not be profitable . 
I also voted against Amendment No 14 on the definition of municipal waste . This amendment reintroduces a definition of mixed municipal waste even though this is already specified in Article 3 ( 3 ) . 
Incorrect interpretation of this article could lead to the use of municipal waste in cement kilns being excluded whereas this type of treatment is provided for by the waste plans of several public authorities . 
This vote is not at odds with my environmental concerns as co - incineration in cement works is not particularly harmful for the environment . Cement kilns are actually subject to strict emission rules . 
Moreover , co - incineration is , in certain cases , an integral part of the waste management policies of certain Member States or regions , under conditions which are both economically and environmentally acceptable . 
 -  ( SV ) More stringent rules for incineration plants are highly desirable . 
It is , however , doubtful whether the same kind of rules ought to be laid down for plants designed for unsorted waste as for plants that are only intended to treat certain types of waste , in other words waste that is sorted . 
Plants for unsorted waste require more advanced equipment . 
If the same requirements are laid down for all types of incineration plant , the effect could be to hinder the sorting of rubbish and to make recycling and reuse more difficult , including composting organic waste . 
We in the Swedish Christian Democratic Party would therefore like to encourage the Commission to pay close attention to these points of view during the continued work on the issues of rubbish and waste . 
I studied this report from my standpoint as a mayor because the Commission proposal mainly reinforces current legislation on the incineration of municipal waste . 
As an aside , this shows the usefulness for an MEP of being able to exercise the complementary mandate of mayor which is an option that the current French Government is unfairly and absurdly planning to prohibit . It is in no one ' s interests to cut MEPs off from their grassroots . 
The directive ' s objective is commendable . It aims to prevent and reduce the negative effects of waste incineration and co - incineration . 
However , we cannot support the proposal as it also aims to subject all plants to the same emission standards . 
This is not the way to deal with the overcapacity of incinerators in Europe and the rapporteur agrees with this . 
Certain waste flows are more easily treated in a co - incineration plant . 
We believe that certain proposed amendments to the common position may actually prevent existing plants being brought up to standard and may penalise the co - incineration of hazardous waste in cement works . This latter aspect essentially concerns France and Belgium . 
With regard to municipal waste , I have several comments to make . 
Firstly , confusion should not be allowed about the definition of ' mixed municipal waste ' in the context of co - incineration . 
Likening ' partially separated waste ' to ' untreated mixed municipal waste '  , as Amendment No 14 does , risks affecting the development of the waste sorting sectors which we are trying to establish and in which some or all of the residues could be co - incinerated . 
Furthermore , if Article 7 ( 4 ) was amended as proposed , the removal of the qualification of municipal waste as ' untreated ' would be tantamount to prohibiting the co - incineration of certain sorted municipal waste such as paper , cardboard and so on which could not be recycled unless it was collected separately . 
Finally , it is not acceptable to reduce the threshold of 6 tonnes per hour above which existing plants incinerating household waste are subject to an emission limit value of 200 mg per cubic metre for NOx . This is because local authority planning to adapt existing equipment uses this threshold . 
See , in this respect , Annex V ( a ) . 
Even though we know that incineration is not the ideal solution , it represents an important advance for many authorities which have invested heavily to develop modern management of the municipal service for domestic and similar waste . 
However , thinking on this issue must be taken into account and research must be continued . 
The waste treatment industry will have to be very inventive in the future to avoid actually causing pollution . 
We must therefore develop broader waste management strategies and actively encourage research and development in this area which is essential for life and for the future of our local authorities . 
 - I find it incredible , given the anti - Brussels hysteria of his UKIP allies , that Mr Blokland has managed to produce such an over - regulated monster of a report . 
But at least these proposals will allow the anti - European rubbish peddled by Mr Blokland and the UKIP to be disposed of in an environmentally - friendly manner . 
The aim of these proposals is to improve air quality and protect human health . 
Incineration is often the most effective and safe method of waste disposal . 
Sometimes , however , it can release dangerous chemicals , such as dioxins , into the atmosphere . 
It is therefore vital that these by - products are monitored and prevented from escaping into the environment . 
The technology for cleaning up fumes from waste incineration plants already exists . 
We just need to make sure that it is used . 
The sensible measures put forward by the Commission should encourage the utilisation of this technology . 
I find the UKIP ' s hypocrisy breathtaking . 
I challenge the UKIP to explain to their own supporters how they can be allied to such an obvious supporter of EU over - regulation . 
While pretending to be the Eurocrat ' s foe , they are clearly , in fact , the Eurocrat ' s friend . 
I fear that cleaning up the environment may prove to be a doddle compared to the task of persuading the UKIP to clean up its act . 
The losers , sadly , will be our own citizens . 
If we are to believe the texts of the Ancients , waste disposal was a problem in ancient Rome even though , since then , this waste has made generations of archaeologists very happy . 
At the time the majority of the waste was biodegradable which is far from being the case today . 
We have just been talking about chocolate . 
This provides an ideal way of illustrating this issue by looking , for example , at the journey of the packaging of a chocolate bar from the dustbin to the incineration plant . From this we can see that the combustion of the aluminium foil produces toxic gases . 
We are facing an enormous challenge in terms of waste management . 
However , I believe that some countries are not prepared for this either practically or theoretically . 
One - third of domestic and similar waste treated by French disposal plants is currently handled by three hundred incinerators . 
This incineration generates polluting emissions of dust , metals and dioxins which must be controlled using a smoke treatment system . 
The regulations on the limitation of discharges are gradually being reinforced . 
Clearly , action is needed to ensure that the rules are respected because health and the environment must be protected . However , in terms of co - incineration , the scope and definition of these plants should not be altered . 
In consolidating certain regulations and complicating others , we must be careful that this does not lead to mistrust regarding European environmental legislation , advocating first one thing and then another . Every change in this legislation causes uncertainty for certain professions and industries . 
Amendments to the legislation on co - incinerators or the specific treatment of hazardous waste risk creating cost distortions or even causing unjustified transportation of waste elsewhere . 
There is a real risk of encouraging one particular sector to the detriment of others through ill - judged limit values . We need four incineration sectors specialising in hazardous waste , non - hazardous waste , co - incineration and incineration in adapted combustion plants . 
My colleagues should also note another point , although this is of less importance . 
In my opinion , however , an information campaign is needed following the merger of these directives . 
The people of Europe are under the impression that special , hazardous , non - hazardous and municipal waste will all be mixed together and undergo common treatment in the same kiln and in the same plant . 
The sorting of waste which they carry out therefore appears to be useless . 
We must therefore set up a proper information and explanatory campaign . 
Davies report ( A5 - 0062 / 2000 ) 
This debate on air quality concerns the particular problem of ozone in ambient air , as set out in the Davies report . 
All the experts agree that it is essential to raise standards of air quality so that people throughout the European Union are protected effectively against health risks posed by ozone in ambient air . 
The various health effects of ozone include irritation to eyes , nose and throat , difficulty in breathing , coughs and headaches . Ozone also contributes to asthmatic attacks , impaired lung function and increased bronchial reactivity . 
In the long term , this can even cause premature ageing of lungs . 
These facts are frightening to say the least , which is why I warmly welcome this proposed directive . 
It aims to amend the existing Community legislation on ozone in accordance with the requirements of Council Directive 96 / 62 / EC on ambient air quality assessment and management . 
It sets long - term objectives and interim target values for ozone in ambient air . 
It also introduces a framework of standards to protect human health and the environment . 
Finally , it requires Member States to monitor ozone concentrations and to report the results to the public . 
The directive will therefore provide a benchmark for the levels of ozone in ambient air . 
In setting long - term objectives , the Commission proposes to use the 1997 World Health Organisation air quality guidelines . 
The ultimate aim is to prevent these long - term objectives being exceeded and thereby avoid harmful effects on human health and the environment . 
However , the Commission ' s proposals do not set a deadline for this to be achieved . 
This is to be regretted . 
As a first interim step , target values are set . 
The aim is to achieve these , as far as possible , by 2010 . 
These are also based on the WHO guidelines , but it is accepted that these will be exceeded on a number of days each year . 
It must be pointed out that the Commission proposal does not take account of any changes which may result from the Community ' s climate change commitments . 
These currently call for an 8 % reduction in a range of greenhouse gases . 
Success in meeting these commitments should enable Member States to be more ambitious regarding target values for the reduction of ozone levels . 
To conclude , I am fairly satisfied with the text of this proposed directive as it takes an important step towards attaining the ultimate goal set out in the fifth Environmental Action Programme of never exceeding critical levels of ozone in ambient air . 
Myller report ( A5 - 0063 / 2000 ) 
We are today debating a legislative proposal which affects us all directly as it aims to improve ambient air quality . 
This proposed directive concerns national emission ceilings for certain atmospheric pollutants and comes under the framework directive on air quality . 
It is part of the Community ' s fifth Environmental Action Programme or EAP . 
The main objective is to limit emissions of acidifying and eutrophying pollutants and ozone precursors in order to improve the protection of the environment and human health against adverse effects from acidification , soil eutrophication and tropospheric ozone . 
The ceilings indicated in this text must be complied with by 2010 at the latest . 
Member States are therefore required to draw up programmes for the progressive reduction of their annual national emissions and report these to the Commission before the end of 2002 . 
The programmes are to be updated and revised by 2006 . 
Member States are also required to prepare , and regularly update , national emission inventories and emission projections for 2010 for SO2 , NOx , VOCs and NH3 . 
These inventories and projections must be reported to the Commission each year . 
The rapporteur has proposed amendments to reinforce this proposal . 
In particular , she suggests setting stricter standards for emissions of the four pollutants in question . 
In principle I can only agree with these proposals . 
When it comes to protecting health and the environment we must be ambitious if we really want to improve the situation . 
However , setting the standards too high can be counterproductive . 
This is why I believe that at the moment we should keep to the objectives set in the international conventions . These ceilings can , of course , be revised in light of future progress . 
The report also asks the Commission to propose new amendments to the directive by 2004 . 
The Commission could , in this way , revise the ceilings set in the text , the interim environmental targets and the new measures adopted to ensure respect for these ceilings . 
These amendments could ensure that the directive is brought into line with technical and scientific developments and would allow the objectives to potentially be achieved by 2010 . 
I feel this is a good compromise . 
The rapporteur also proposes setting target dates for achieving these objectives . This is essential . 
Without compulsory deadlines , texts are all too often simply declarations of intent which achieve nothing . 
In the same respect , penalties applicable to infringements of the directive ' s provisions must be established as quickly as possible . 
We are in favour of the EU creating fixed limit values in connection with the environment by means of framework legislation , as most environmental problems are general and transnational . 
Each Member State has different traditions and requirements , which is why the Member States themselves should be responsible for implementation , ensuring that the common goals can be achieved in a satisfactory way . 
We have chosen to vote against Amendments Nos 16 and 17 , because these proposals , in a much too general and undifferentiated way , relieve small Member States of the need to achieve the environmental goals that have been established . 
Motion for a resolution on the Lisbon European Council
The goal of full employment which reappears on the agenda whenever growth returns is clearly an admirable intention . It is difficult to achieve , however , without attacking the real causes of unemployment . 
Despite current growth , job creation in Europe is notoriously inadequate . 
Those jobs which are created tend to be precarious , particularly where they involve women and young people . 
We must move away from simple declarations of intent , no matter how positive they may be . 
In view of the extremely high social expectations , we must urgently define measurable and verifiable objectives . 
What I would have liked to see was a commitment on the proposals indicated in my Group ' s motion such as : 
The introduction of a process for reducing working time without any loss of wages or flexibility ; 
A review of the directives on Euroworks councils and collective redundancies to reinforce the rights and powers of employees and their trade unions , particularly in the event of mergers and restructuring ; 
The establishment at Community level of taxation on speculative capital movements and reinforcement of the fight against fraud and tax evasion . 
I deeply regret that we are not embarking on a new type of sustainable development , based on the fairer distribution of wealth , an increase in the purchasing power of households and the stimulation of public and social investment . 
For all these reasons we will vote against the joint motion . 
Portugal holds the presidency of the European Union for the first half of the year 2000 . It has therefore decided to organise at the end of this month , in Lisbon , a Special European Council on the following problem :  ' Employment , Economic Reforms and Social Cohesion - towards a Europe based on innovation and knowledge '  . 
This initiative is to be congratulated . 
Unemployment and the resulting poverty and social exclusion are scourges which we must tackle head - on . 
The preparation of a coherent and coordinated strategy involving all the Member States is therefore essential . 
We must firstly set ambitious objectives . 
Those indicated in the Portuguese presidency ' s document are the return to full employment , stable growth , a genuine process of social cohesion , equal opportunities and the fight against poverty . 
As underlined by the President - in - Office of the Council , Mr Guterres , we were able to coordinate our economic policies to launch the euro . 
The European Union must now accept the challenge and proceed in a similar fashion by proposing guidelines for the policy on employment and social inclusion . 
I also welcome the idea of setting quantified objectives and benchmarks , in particular an annual average growth rate in the EU of 3 % and a level of employment of 70 % . 
To complement this , a transparent benchmarking system must be established in order to assess the progress made by Member States in achieving these objectives . This requires an open system of paired assessment and coordination . 
The presidency ' s document also stresses the necessary reinforcement of social convergence and the modernisation of our social protection systems . 
The essential condition is clearly to guarantee a high level of employment . 
This requires the creation of jobs , not just any jobs , but quality jobs , particularly in the service sector . 
It also involves keeping jobs in Europe , given that the recent trend has been mass and systematic redundancies . 
This means that the workforce has to adapt to the new information technologies . 
I therefore broadly support this programme . 
I hope these objectives will lead , during the Lisbon Summit , to specific and ambitious measures which can meet the legitimate expectations of the male and female citizens of Europe . 
 -  ( EL ) Yet another summit , this time initiated by the Portuguese presidency , is about to add its contribution to the continuing intensification of , and support for , the neo - Liberal , monetarist policies which have led to the present dismal situation , which contradict every social and employment policy and which cause dramatic rises in unemployment , job insecurity , discrimination , social exclusion and widespread poverty , ostensibly in order to ' promote ' proposals and measures to support employment and combat unemployment . 
It is a contradiction , it is ironic , it is hypocritical and it is insulting to workers to propose strengthening the competitiveness of undertakings by reducing labour costs , promoting total liberalisation , increasing the flexibility of the job market and supporting atypical forms of work as measures to combat unemployment . 
We need to stop maintaining and strengthening the Stability Pact , giving priority to nominal convergence criteria , and we need to stop completely subjugating social policy to financial criteria and requirements before we can start talking about fundamental employment policies . 
Speculative working capital would be taxed , tax havens would be abolished , fraud and tax evasion would be combated , wealth and income would be redistributed for the benefit of labour , state aid would be controlled , restructuring , merger and relocation grants which result in mass redundancies would immediately be suspended , and better social protection based on solidarity and independent of commercial and financial interests would be introduced if employment really were the European Union ' s main concern , rather than how to ' sweeten the pill ' in order to deceive workers and limit social reaction to its anti - labour and anti - grass roots economic and social policy . 
If its aim were to improve the standard of living of workers , increase their purchasing power and guarantee safe jobs , it would support public - sector and social investment and equal opportunities , combat all forms of discrimination in connection with access to employment and jobs and act as a barrier to policies based on privatisation , low wages and lack of social protection , flexible and temporary work and the constant exclusion of women , the young and people with special needs from the job market . 
In fact , what the economic and social policy guidelines are promoting , what they are striving for in practice , is a minimum level of poverty , not a minimum level of prosperity for workers . 
Prosperity is the preserve of big business , before which all bow down in reverence , making it more and more immune , throwing the job market even more out of kilter in the name of increased productivity and competitiveness , attacking social and other rights which have been won even more violently and promoting the perception that the modern ( anti ­ ) social state need only throw the people a few crumbs of charity . 
The victims of long - term unemployment and social exclusion , and there are over 60 million of them , and European workers as a whole , have no intention of showing themselves to be ' mutually supportive '  ,  ' adaptable '  ,  ' docile ' and ' cooperative ' in their choices , as you will have them be . 
You will find them insubordinate , uncompromising and intractable , fighting and demanding full and stable employment , a social policy system which includes insurance , health , a pension , unemployment protection , truly equal opportunities , quality education and fundamental vocational training . 
You will find them fighting for a social , democratic , mutually supportive Europe , a workers ' Europe , a Europe of the people , and you will find us by their side , fighting with them . 
 ( The sitting was suspended at 1 . 35 p . m . and resumed at 3 p . m . ) 
Human rights , racism , xenophobia and antisemitism ( continuation ) 
Ladies and gentlemen , the next item is the continuation of the joint debate on four reports on human rights , racism , xenophobia and antisemitism . 
Madam President , I should like to expressly thank Mr Belder for his report . 
Racism , xenophobia and antisemitism are a depressing problem , including within the European Union . 
Fighting them is one of the common goals of almost every political group in this House . 
This House is prepared to exercise diplomatic restraint in many areas , but not on this question . 
And rightly so . 
Mr Belder knows that I and the committee wished to quote the specifics of individual problems in candidate countries . 
A number of proposed amendments by Baroness Ludford attempt to rectify this and I shall support them . 
The way in which the social causes of racism in candidate countries and the highly significant social and employment policy consequences of a consistent anti - racist policy have been dealt with appears to me to be too general . 
The fact that Mr Belder was prepared to clearly address the question of antisemitism is one of the most important results of the discussion process and I again extend my thanks to Mr Belder . 
Leafing through the various positions of the Commission , the European Parliament , the Council of Europe and the Vienna Monitoring Centre , one is struck by the fact that antisemitism is quoted as a particular and particularly dangerous form of racism in several headlines , but only in the headlines . 
There is almost a total lack of analytical appraisal or special programmes to combat it . 
And as far as the Commission programmes in the candidate countries are concerned , Commissioner , the word " almost " can be dispensed with . 
I consider this an unacceptable oversight and I therefore refer this question to you specifically . 
Antisemitism is , without doubt , widespread ; often it is latent , which complicates the issue . 
This morning in this House we were witness to one of its most repulsive forms , when the age - old assertion that the Jews themselves are responsible for antisemitism was repeated . 
This debate should therefore be a separate and very , very specific task for us and the Commission . 
Madam President , the presentation by the Council of a first EU annual report on human rights was a welcome contribution to the on - going debate . 
In particular I welcome the information it contains regarding the EU - China human rights dialogue . 
While this dialogue can and does play a role in the transformation of human rights issues in China , it will only bear fruit if the European Union speaks and acts as one . 
Too often in the past EU Member States have allowed themselves to be blackmailed by China . 
At previous sessions of the UN Commission on Human Rights in Geneva , when some Member States were raising China ' s appalling human rights record , they were picked off one by one because of threatened trade sanctions by China . 
Capitulating to China was both immoral and cowardly . 
It was immoral to extend greater priority to the importance of trade interests over human rights and is in marked contrast to our approach in relation to the bilateral trade agreements we have with developing countries . 
It was cowardly also . 
History has consistently shown that the correct approach is to stand up to a bully . 
Attempts to compromise are always interpreted as weakness by bullies , and China is such a bully . 
We see this in its response to legitimate international concerns about its human rights record . 
It treats the views of the outside world with contempt . 
We witnessed it again at last week ' s conference of the National People ' s Congress in Beijing . 
Its warmongering tone in relation to Taiwan is unacceptable and is a direct interference in Taiwan ' s presidential election . 
Its arrogance in relation to its treatment of Falun Gong practitioners and dissidents also cannot be tolerated . 
In Geneva , and elsewhere , the EU should take every opportunity in a united way to express its displeasure . 
While I strongly support China ' s admission to the WTO , we should give China a dose of its own medicine . 
We should use these negotiations as a means of leverage to ensure that China not only listens to EU concerns about its continued abuse of human rights but that it also takes action to improve its record . 
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , if we are to reinforce the protection of human rights in the European Union , we must firstly concern ourselves with the most vulnerable , i . e . essentially , the poorest . 
The most basic violation of human rights is the denial of each individual ' s right to live decently . Respect for human dignity must be our guide . 
We must ensure that poverty is not allowed to destroy individuals and families , that children are not taken away from their parents because of poverty and that the simple right of association is not refused to those who do not even have the right to work . 
The aim is to create acceptable living conditions for all . 
Everyone must be protected from poverty and exclusion . 
Everyone is entitled to education , culture and health . 
Everyone is entitled to decent housing and an income which allows them to live honourably . 
We must declare that poverty will not be tolerated . 
We must declare that everyone is entitled to their physical and mental integrity and that this integrity involves the right to a decent life . 
Could the idea of fraternity become the key concept for the 21st century ? 
Everyone has in them the enduring need to dream and through fraternity we could meet our main expectations for the poorest in society . 
Fraternity gives meaning to solidarity , rejects exclusion and solitude , and ensures respect for differences . 
Fraternity must guarantee the rights of the poorest . 
Our century will be a century of progress in which the wildest utopian ideals may be realised . 
Fraternity is one of these ideals and together , ladies and gentlemen , we can achieve it . 
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , once again we are devoting part of our time in this Chamber to one of the most honourable aspects of our parliamentary work : the defence of human rights of all kinds and in all parts of the world . 
I would like to compliment the President on the wise decision to take these four reports together . 
While we may not be able to devote to each report the time its importance would merit , we can safely say , when we discuss human rights elsewhere , in the rest of the world , that we have not omitted to carry out a serious analysis of shortcomings here in the European Union itself . 
Whilst it is a fact - fortunately - that we here in the European Union are not faced with the gross violations that we rather unjustly criticise in other states , our own Member States still need to improve the way they respect these rights , economic and social rights , civil and political rights , with particular reference to respect for privacy and data protection for individuals , children ' s rights , women ' s rights and the rights of refugees who are immigrants here . 
And we still have a long way to go as regards violence by the police and in prisons , and in combating racism and xenophobia . 
With regard to third countries it is vital , and urgent , for the European Union to have a common strategy - to be prepared by the Council in consultation with this Parliament - which should consistently shape all the European Union ' s policies , and in particular its development cooperation policy . 
It makes no sense in terms of Realpolitik for us to be more demanding in some areas than in others , for us to be more indulgent of some states than of others , and for us to pursue cooperation policies with some states that do not respect fundamental human rights , and where the rule of law has broken down and serious transgressions go unpunished . 
If we continue to give political and economic support to countries where this is happening , we will be condoning regimes that do not respect human rights , countries where we can legitimately question whether Community aid is reaching the people whose development we are endeavouring to promote , or whether we are simply maintaining the vanity , opulence and secret bank accounts of a handful of leaders . 
