Madam President , I congratulate the four rapporteurs on their work , and in particular Baroness Ludford for carrying forward work that I , amongst others , helped to initiate nearly a decade and a half ago with the first Committee of Inquiry into Racism and Fascism in Europe , whose rapporteur , in fact , was an excellent member of the Christian Democrat Group and of Nea Dimokratia , Dimitrios Evregenis , of whose work Mr Le Pen has said that he will use all means possible to prevent its being put into practice . 
I wish to make two comments with respect to the reports in front of us ; one on the Belder report , which contains a version of an amendment which I have tabled concerning the treatment of the Russian - speaking minorities in Estonia and Latvia . 
I believe it has a place here . 
What was happening 15 years ago in Austria was that Mr Haider was actually persecuting the Slovene - speaking minority there . 
Very few of us wanted to stand up and say anything at the time . 
We need to tell the Estonians and the Latvians that , if they continue that treatment , their prospects of joining the European Union will be that much less . 
Secondly , the Ludford report has a series of amendments tabled by the Christian Democrats challenging a series of paragraphs that were originally in the Evregenis report 15 years ago - and were approved by the Christian Democrats then - on the amendment of the Staff Regulations to allow ethnic minority members to join the European Community staff . 
On voting rights , on the selection of ethnic minority candidates , what I do not understand is whether they have no institutional memory or whether , a more sinister development , their political position has changed . 
Madam President , both I and my Group enthusiastically support Mr Haarder ' s human rights report because we have found a very good line in it and there are numerous reasons for doing so . 
My Group and I do , however , have serious reservations about the Ludford report because numerous political measures are discussed under the banner of the fight against racism and xenophobia which have nothing to do with the analysis and which , of course , have lost nothing by being in this report alongside a wealth of other measures which we shall wholeheartedly support . 
Allow me to tell you which points we do not accept and why . 
They are the points which fall outside the stated report period of 1997 / 98 . 
And when Sarah Ludford says the report refers to the year 2000 , then she must be clairvoyant because it has only just begun . 
Secondly , we are against all the points which fly in the face of the basic principle of solidarity . 
Mr Nassauer has already pointed out the fact that intervention in the right to hold public office has been called for here . 
Has the author ever tried to enter public office in Morocco for example ? 
The question of recruitment to public office in a Member State or to the police is exclusively a matter for that Member State . 
Thirdly , matters are addressed which have no place in this report , such as the voting rights of third country nationals in European elections or local elections . 
I consider this last point to be very important . 
As an Austrian , I cannot accept a report which takes exception to my country in a most unqualified and most unjustified manner and which expressly welcomes and supports party - politically motivated action and unjustified boycotting measures by the fourteen . 
These are actions which , in the final analysis , are directed against young people , the economy , sport and the people of my country , and they have no place in this report . 
The report does not contain what the title promises . 
Madam President , thanks are due to Mr Haarder for a basically splendid piece of work . 
There is , nonetheless , one point on which I have to say that I disagree with the rapporteur . 
When I read the Danish version of Mr Haarder ' s report , I thought for one brief moment that Mr Haarder had grown wiser with the years , and I had taken note of the fact that there is now a judgement from the Danish Supreme Court stating that so - called ' exclusive agreements ' do not contravene human rights . 
I believed and hoped that I could declare myself in agreement with Mr Haarder in emphasising the individual ' s right to membership of trade unions . 
When , however , the report is read in other languages , it can be seen that Mr Haarder has not grown wiser . Either that , or he is hiding it very well . 
From a number of unclear wordings , it looks as if the rapporteur is continuing his crusade against the Danish model , in which employees and employers are able to agree that only members of a specific trade union can be employed in a specific area of work . 
No one is being deprived of the right to work and no one is being deprived of the right to belong to a trade union , but individuals cannot benefit from extensive social agreements without also being themselves members of precisely that union which has produced the agreements . 
Mr Haarder goes much further in his assault , for he tries indirectly to strengthen those unions which do not recognise precisely those collective victories which have helped create the welfare and the human rights which we have spent all day debating . 
Madam President , I notice that you have not called Mr Hernández Mollar , who had asked me to speak on his behalf . 
I would therefore ask you to allow me the two minutes allotted to Mr Hernández Mollar , so that I can present his intervention , and then the four minutes allotted to me , if this is acceptable to you . 
I will therefore present Mr Hernández Mollar ' s intervention . 
Madam President , the debate on xenophobia and racism is always of great importance , politically and socially . 
The Ludford report contains points which are highly acceptable and which any democrat can and must ratify , but also contains other points which are less than rigorous from a political and even from a legal point of view . 
European citizenship is an abstract concept which lacks any legal form . 
The Member States regulate the political rights of their citizens in accordance with their own democratic laws , as also happens in many of the countries of origin of the citizens who emigrate to the European Union . 
To ask for political participation in local , national or European elections , or even access to the civil service for people who are not nationals of the Member States , without even coming to a reciprocal arrangement , is politically unrealistic and displays a lack of legal rigour . 
It would be impossible to comply with a proposal of this type and I therefore ask Mrs Ludford to withdraw it so that we can vote in favour of her report . 
Xenophobia and racism should be combated by means of education and integration in the workplace and in society , and by paying attention to the issues of housing , health and social services , but let us not use blithe rhetoric when it comes to an issue which above all requires rigour and seriousness . 
That was Mr Hernández Mollar ' s intervention . 
I will now begin my own , Madam President . 
The existence of a panoply of fundamental civil , economic , social and political rights , fully guaranteed by constitutional legislation and by public authorities , is one of the essential elements of modern Western society . 
The various charters and declarations which mark the history , firstly , of European / American politics , and then , later , world politics , are milestones which have ennobled the collective life of humanity , carrying it aloft on the shoulders of Christian values and the Enlightenment through to today ' s democratic ideals . 
The European Union has always considered the respect for fundamental human rights to be one of the essential principles of its founding spirit and has engraved this on the frontispiece of its founding Treaties . 
Without this irrefutable component of our moral concept of social organisation , the very existence of the Union would cease to make sense , because , as well as constituting a broad space of economic freedom , the citizens of the fifteen Member States wish , above all else , to offer the rest of the world an example of the scrupulous respect for these rights . 
However , that firm and unequivocal will must be exercised in a manner which is legally rigorous and , above all , based on common sense . 
The nationals of non - EU states who live in the Union must be treated on an equal footing with the citizens of the Member States with regard to access to education , health and social protection . 
This must be done whilst respecting their specific religious beliefs and cultural characteristics . 
The tiniest hint of racism , intolerance or xenophobia must be eradicated in any Member State in which it may occur . 
However , the administrative status of the resident is not the same as the political status of the citizen . 
In a political sense , the citizens of the Union are classed as such by virtue of being citizens of one of the Member States and this allows them to enjoy full political participation and , in particular , to express themselves in elections , to take collective representative responsibility of an electoral nature and to compete for permanent posts in the public administrations . 
The ingenious construction of a European citizenship which is not based on the prior and essential requirement of being a citizen of a Member State , of a European citizenship which is above the constitutions of the States of the Union , with no legal basis nor solid political foundation , rashly granted to passport holders from non - EU countries , even if they are residents , would be a source of confusion and would endanger the rights of the nationals of the fifteen Member States . 
The European Union must offer a generous welcome , and must be open to all people who wish to contribute , through their efforts and their work , to our general prosperity or who seek asylum or refuge from oppression or persecution . 
However , full political citizenship must be acquired in accordance with the laws of each Member State . 
In his celebrated lecture at the Sorbonne entitled " What is a Nation ? " Ernest Renan warned us :  " Let us not abandon the principle that man is first and foremost a rational and moral being , before speaking any particular language , before being a member of any particular race , before belonging to any particular culture "  . 
Many of the tragedies of the twentieth century in Europe have resulted from ignoring this wise advice . 
Let us allow Renan to refresh our memories , but let us not indulge in excesses which are less than rational and of dubious morality . 
Madam President , I would like to express my appreciation for Mr Belder ' s report , which is also the topic of my contribution today . 
The report raises many relevant points . 
Many indeed , such as the issue of racism and discrimination in the candidate countries , require a great deal of attention . 
I hope that the candidate countries seeking membership of the EU will act upon the recommendations contained in the report and I also hope that our future partners , the enlargement countries , will soon sign up to the Community action programme against discrimination which will be tabled shortly in this Parliament . 
However , in my contribution , I would like to home in on the predicament of the Roma people , otherwise known as gypsies . 
Many Roma in the candidate Member States live in extremely abject conditions . 
They are frequently at the receiving end of all kinds of discrimination . 
Under the communist regime , they were subjected to an assimilation policy . After this , after 1989 , they were more or less left to fend for themselves . 
For a long time , little attention was given to their predicament , but fortunately , the Council of Europe was the first to raise the alarm . 
In the light of enlargement , the Commission has now also accorded their problem priority status , and rightly so . 
Many governments in the candidate Member States concerned have also become active on this score , and many of us have noticed the sudden influx of gypsy groups into a number of Member States . 
Parliament would like to gain more insight into , and an overview of , all the actions and intentions on the part of the European Union and the Commission and would therefore ask the Commission to produce a coherent programme , based on strengthened cooperation , with objectives and timeframes . 
We want the European Union to get more directly involved in order to address the problems of the Roma . 
Not only the European Commission but also this Parliament would do well to pay a lot more attention to this . 
This should , first and foremost , be placed within a broader context . 
We should not just aim to combat discrimination and change people ' s mentality . 
We also need to address the causes of discrimination . 
Regional developments and a sound social policy are indispensable tools in this . 
Roma often live in areas where everyone is struggling . 
We want to adopt an approach from a local perspective . 
Local communities and local governments play a key role in solving the problems of the Roma . 
This is the level at which improvement programmes need to be drawn up in the areas of education , housing and employment . They must be organised in such a way as to ensure that the entire population benefits . 
At the same time , local cooperation is an effective tool against prejudice and discrimination . 
Only at a local level can the negative cycle of disadvantage and discrimination be broken . 
The Roma ' s own contribution is also important . As far as I am concerned , this too is a key word . 
Roma need to be able to stand up for themselves more . 
They need to become directly involved and given co - responsibility in order to improve their conditions . 
In my opinion , official recognition of the Roma as a minority could help them to achieve more political independence . 
In addition , there is a need for more specific action aimed at changing people ' s mentality . 
The tendency to discriminate is often deep - rooted , even at government level . 
This needs to be given special attention . 
I also advocate sound cooperation between the European Union and the Council of Europe . 
We should make better use of the expertise developed within these circles . 
Finally , I would like to underline that , more than anything , there is a great need for tangible results in the short term . 
Many campaigns are being launched with a great deal of good will and the European Union is very active too . 
This is praiseworthy in itself . 
At the same time , however , I would ask the Commission to aim for swift and visible results , the goal being the European Union ' s first enlargement . We can then prove to our own citizens that we have addressed the problem . 
Some investments require a lot of time and it takes a long time before they take effect , but other aspects , such as housing and tackling the employment issues , can yield tangible results sooner . 
We must address the problems facing the Roma in the candidate Member States themselves , which is , after all , where they live . 
In fact , we should do this as soon as possible in order to avoid this problem becoming our problem in six years or so . 
Mr President , human rights , fundamental freedoms and the rule of law are the alpha and omega of any political system . 
We take them for granted , but it appears that in our ultra - civilised Europe they are not always observed . 
Mr Haarder has described the situation within the 15 Member States , and the implication is that there is certainly much work still to be done . 
For example , it is an inadmissible , almost bewildering fact that , even today , some countries are denounced by Amnesty International for failure to respect the most basic human rights . 
It is absurd that some states , including , sadly , my native country , are being condemned by the European Court of Human Rights over the exaggerated length of their legal proceedings . 
The fact that the institution of exile is still in force in some Member States is incompatible with all the principles of human rights . 
If the European Union wants to enlarge and become an authoritative reference system for the international community , we do indeed need a strong , coherent reaction from the European institutions , but there is also the need for each of us to transcend his own national political interests and focus on the good of the Union as a whole by voting responsibly , in both political and , more importantly , humane terms on these issues . 
We are all quite aware that this report will not be binding upon our governments : until the Charter of Fundamental Rights is completed and inserted into the Treaties we can do no more than invite the Member States to take action . 
However , where there is political responsibility this should not be a problem . 
At a time when the Union is attempting to create an autonomous military body to enable it to intervene wherever the rule of law is under threat , at a time when the Copenhagen criteria have become an integral part of the acquis communautaire to be assimilated by the candidate countries , it is unacceptable for there to be such discrepancies in the area of human rights within the 15 States . 
We must overcome this and incite our governments to be European through and through . 
I am not the first person to say this : the European Union is not , cannot and must not be a purely economic union . 
The European Union is something much greater than that ; it has a common origin and a dream which we must fight to realise , and civil rights are an integral part of that fight . 
Mr President , we might call today ' s sitting a sitting in celebration of human rights . 
Those with ulterior motives might say that Europe is engaging in self - flagellation . 
I believe that Europe is reviving its hopes and its prospects . 
Human rights issues spearhead and underpin the development of Europe . 
And when it comes to human rights , we must never ever make concessions . 
We demand various criteria of the countries which will accede and of other countries , wherever they may be . 
The death penalty is an example . 
And yet we have an ally , America , in which the death penalty both exists and is used . 
I mention this in a spirit of international sarcasm and because , if we want to build a Europe based on humanitarian principles , it must never make concessions to political expediency and must behave in a mature forward - looking manner . 
All four reports on which we shall be voting are good reports . 
They need some improvement and I think that the entire House will help without any expediency or ulterior motive . 
In particular , Mr Belder ' s report on candidate countries is a very good report and I hope that , in the end , it will be even better . 
I am tempted for the sake of quality , and because I wish to participate and because I agree , to read two paragraphs , two proposals relating to two candidate countries . 
Cyprus - Cyprus satisfies the Copenhagen criteria . 
In passing , it should be said that there has been no progress in resolving the political partition of the island . 
Turkey - The Commission report notes no progress on the fundamental Kurdish issue . 
In short , Turkey still fails to satisfy the Copenhagen criteria . 
We are in favour of Turkey ' s joining the European Union . 
However , we must not make concessions on questions of principle for anyone . 
Madam President , Mr President - in - Office of the Council , Commissioners , I should like first and foremost to say one thing about the Belder report : it is an excellent report , a serious and very important report and it has my full support . 
It is based on fundamental European values which , per se , vehemently oppose racism , xenophobia and antisemitism . 
I think that only if we base our position on these fundamental values inside the European Union are we entitled to criticise others outside the Union , in places where these fundamental values are violated . 
That is why I believe that this debate , which is being conducted in connection with the Austrian government , provided that it is a serious debate , is extremely important , because its precise aim is to struggle for these fundamental European values and stand up for them , both at home and abroad . 
There are various sections of the population in the candidate countries , in the candidate countries , which merit our particular attention . 
The first which I should like to mention are the Roma and Sinti ; they represent a very large section of the population and we must seriously consider how they can be sensibly integrated into society . 
We must also admit that there is a problem in this regard because the Roma and Sinti themselves have different conceptions of how this integration can function . 
But we must help them with training . 
We must help them find jobs and we must do a great deal of educational work so that what happened recently , the literal immuration and separation of the Roma and Sinti from the rest of the inhabitants in the community , is never repeated . 
The second group which I should like to mention are the Kurds . 
Turkey , which is a candidate country even if we are not yet negotiating with it , recognises no minorities , not even the Kurdish minority . 
I consider this stance to be wrong and one which contradicts the declarations of the Council of Europe . 
But even if the Kurds are not recognised as a minority and Turkey is not prepared to grant them any collective rights , it must acknowledge that it is violating the Kurds ' individual rights and their cultural freedom , their freedom of expression as well as their economic freedoms and rights . 
I therefore think it extremely important that we help the Kurds gain their rights in a reasonable and peaceful manner . 
The Belder report also states this unequivocally . 
The third group which I should like to make special mention of is to be found mainly in Estonia and Latvia . I refer to the Russian - speaking minorities . 
I understand many of the arguments which I have heard in the Baltic states , namely how difficult it is simply to treat as equals and accept minorities which are not native but which came as an occupying force . 
There are many emotional obstacles to this and yet it is important to take these steps and some have certainly been taken . 
But they must be persevered with and the past , in other words what was done to these minorities by the occupying forces , must be overcome so that a new common future can be built in the Baltic states together with the Russian - speaking minorities . 
The Monitoring Centre for Racism and Xenophobia will open in Vienna on 7 April . 
I personally have asked the President of the European Parliament on behalf of my Group to ensure that this date is adhered to because , objectively - speaking , I consider it to be a very important date , irrespective of the current situation in Austria . 
I hope that this institution will not only be supported and will attract a great deal of publicity and attention on the day of its inauguration , but that Parliament , the Council and the Commission will actively support it in years to come . 
Mr President , I am in favour of the Haarder report in its entirety , including paragraph 38 , and I am therefore departing from the line of the Group of the Party of European Socialists to which I belong , for I feel that the four points mentioned in paragraph 38 - the excessive length of time for which people are remanded in custody , the excessive length of time taken to complete trials , failure to separate the careers of investigating magistrates and judges and the risk of politically influenced magistrates dealing with politicians in public enquiries - are all matters for careful reflection which should lead us to vote for this motion . 
After all , I launched an attack on this subject when I was Italian Minister for Justice , and my right - hand man in that operation was the most important , the most famous and the greatest of all Italian magistrates , Giovanni Falcone . In the same way as I , or rather , we do , he maintained that it was necessary to separate the careers of magistrates , not , of course , in order to penalise them , but to differentiate between the activities of investigators , who are part of the prosecution , and judges , who have to guarantee balance and impartiality . 
I do not feel that the European Parliament ' s intervention in this matter is abusive or excessive , but rather that it is a step towards guaranteeing the realisation of the concept , the vision of balanced European justice , especially with regard to the proper functioning of the public authorities . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I do not intend this to be a very long speech . 
I believe that the debate we have had here today is an extremely important one , and that the various concerns that have been expressed in relation to the various reports have raised some interesting questions . 
Some of these questions have been raised in a rather polemic way , in other cases contradictions have been highlighted . In some cases there has been agreement with the form but probably not with the content . 
In any case , I think that these four reports are , overall , extremely important and that they raise highly topical issues for all of us , especially at a time when the European Union , both internally and as regards its role on the world stage , is endeavouring to highlight and give substance to a fundamental set of values which will ultimately act as a catalyst for its own political union . 
We believe that it is impossible to achieve deepening of the European Union if we are not willing , amongst ourselves , to guarantee a common set of principles and to ensure that these principles also form the essential basis of our own external presence . 
I have referred to our external presence and to the internal dimension . 
A great deal has been said today , either directly or indirectly , about the stance adopted towards Austria . 
This was sometimes expressed in a rather emotional way , I might even say in an understandably emotional way , on the part of individuals linked with that country . 
As the Portuguese Presidency , that is the Portuguese Prime Minister , acted as a channel for the position that 14 countries of the European Union expressed as regards their bilateral relations with Austria , I would like to be very clear about the following point : we do not have any criticism to make about how Austria has behaved at international level , and in particular about how Austria has fulfilled its duties and obligations within the European Union . 
Austria has undeniably been a country that has met its European Union obligations . 
But we have to recognise one thing that has a significant bearing on how we view the European Union : we are all Austrian citizens . 
Today , in the European Union , citizenship means European citizenship . 
An Austrian citizen is a Portuguese citizen . 
A Portuguese citizen is an Austrian citizen . 
There is no such thing as a domestic issue when certain ideologies and certain political forces propagate and advocate a certain type of ideology , even if they may subsequently retreat , for tactical reasons , from positions they have adopted . 
This cannot be viewed as a matter of indifference to the other countries . 
We are now operating within a European area , a common area within which we regard ourselves as being bound by a basic set of principles , many of which are highlighted in the reports before us here . 
We need to look at these issues from a European perspective , and we cannot keep using subsidiarity as an excuse to say that these are national issues and that this amounts to interference in the internal affairs of a particular country . 
That simply is not true . 
As I have already said , Austria ' s internal affairs are also the European Union ' s internal affairs . 
When we advocate the need for political life in Austria to be in accordance with the values and principles promoted by the European Union , and which Austria has also undertaken to promote at European Union level , we are not trying to interfere in Member States ' internal affairs . 
Apart from any emotional issues and , of course , apart from the reactions that situations like this can engender , we believe that there is a need for mature reflection on the significance of this act , which we should point out was bilateral and which , let there be no mistake about this , is a precautionary political act . 
We believe that political precautions of this kind are possibly the best way of warding off future problems , and in particular the ghosts from the past that may return to haunt us in Europe . 
Madam President , ladies and gentlemen , with regard to external relations , we believe that the European Union now has a solid set of values which the deepening process is bound to improve , particularly by means of these reports . 
There are naturally some controversial issues in this area , and people may see things in various different lights in different areas . 
Whilst we all oppose racism , and I think that is a statement everyone in this Chamber will accept , I am not so sure that we can all reach agreement in practice on concrete measures to combat racism . 
And although we may all say that we oppose xenophobia , I am not sure if we can all agree on active steps to integrate foreign citizens into the European Union and accept measures to protect the interests of foreign citizens within the European Union . 
And there is going to be an interesting test of this , in the form of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of citizens of the European Union . 
If there is a will within the Union to extend this charter to foreign citizens living within the European Union , we will be giving a signal that we are starting our action against xenophobia by putting our own house in order , with measures that we ourselves have decided to implement at internal political level . 
Furthermore , as regards antidiscrimination and the various forms of discrimination identified in the various reports , a great many differing measures obviously exist . 
And we know that even when it comes to internal legislation within our Member States , there are major differences in the way some of these questions are dealt with . 
However , I also think that the way these issues are being raised in this House , and the way these reports are helping us to reflect on these problems , represent a shake - up in our collective thinking and are an important factor in helping us to further intensify the debate on these issues . 
This is a task not just for governments , but also for non - governmental organisations , for social lobbies and for political lobbies . 
We need to keep this question on our agenda , and that is the rationale and the significance of this debate . 
Finally , I would like to conclude this speech by drawing attention to the set of measures already adopted in the Council of the European Union and the various Community actions it has implemented . 
The measures that have been developed include a set of initiatives connected with the European Year against Racism in 1997 . 
I would also like to highlight a very important aspect which we have probably not yet fully taken into account : the role of the new Treaty of Amsterdam in this area . 
It was not easy to reach a consensus : when we were negotiating the Treaty of Amsterdam , and I took part in those negotiations , it was not easy to reach a consensus on including the various measures now covered in Articles 6 and 7 . 
Our present experience suggests that it would probably be advisable to improve these provisions , that is to improve these articles . 
We shall see whether , in the course of the Intergovernmental Conference , we can achieve a consensus that will allow us to make further progress on this matter . 
However , I would also like to draw attention to an initiative that will , symbolically , take place in Vienna on 8 April - the launch of the European Monitoring Centre for Racism and Xenophobia . 
This will be a very important body , and I believe that it will also be very important to secure everyone ' s cooperation in encouraging an effective fight against racism and xenophobia in the European Union . 
This essentially represents what we might call the " ethical pillar " of the Union . 
I am talking about a Union of principles and a Union that we have to strengthen - there will not be a political Union in the future if we cannot guarantee that these principles are shared by the great majority of the Community . 
Madam President , at the end of this extremely interesting debate perhaps I can explain the division of labour or work - sharing on the Commission ' s side . 
I intend to deal mainly with the Malmström and Belder reports and my colleague , Commissioner Vitorino , will deal with the other two important reports , although there will obviously be some overlap between us . 
Let me start with the Malmström report . 
I think the first annual report of this new European Parliament is thorough and timely . 
Timely , because I hope that before the summer break this equally new Commission will adopt a communication on human rights in external policies . 
It will cover many of the areas in the report and all the European Parliament ' s recommendations provide extremely useful input for our work . 
I cannot respond to all of the points in the report at this stage . Instead I will pursue them , including discussions with the European Parliament , over the coming months so that we get the communication right and reflect the important arguments in this report . 
I want to concentrate my initial remarks on women ' s and children ' s rights , as the rapporteur has chosen to focus on these important objects . 
It is a timely choice in view of the Beijing + 5 platform for action this year at the UN General Assembly in New York . 
Beijing confirmed that women ' s rights are universal human rights and that women have a central role to play in building democratic and just societies . 
The European initiative for democracy and human rights reflects this . 
Women are explicitly included as a target group for support . 
The actions cover a broad sweep of concerns , from women ' s participation in decision making in the Balkans to support for female domestic workers in the Ivory Coast . 
Issues such as violence against women have been rightly categorised as issues of human rights . 
As such , they should be promoted vigorously as part and parcel of our foreign policy and development assistance . 
Mrs Malmström ' s report sets out some of the stark realities of the violence which is perpetrated against women in many forms and at all levels of society . 
From the horrors of rape to genital mutilation , from the home to the prison cell . 
Our programmes DAPHNE and STOP are the mainstay of the Commission ' s response . 
DAPHNE has supported the sharing of information and good practice amongst NGOs and Member States through more than 100 transnational projects . 
A new DAPHNE programme for 2000 - 2003 was adopted in December 1999 at a level of EUR 5 m a year . 
In response to a European Parliament resolution in 1997 the Commission has conducted an awareness - raising campaign on domestic violence within the Member States . 
We should use what we learn during such campaigns and share that knowledge with applicant countries , perhaps in the context of DAPHNE . 
I take note of what the report says on the horrific practice of genital mutilation and the lack of data on the subject . 
We will look , in the Commission , at ways in which we can contribute to the search for a solution . 
The Commission is also working with others to halt the heinous trafficking of women which has been growing in the last few years . 
We produced a communication in 1998 on this subject . The focus then was placed on prevention , research , law enforcement , effective sentencing of traffickers and support to victims . 
We are working on this , as the honourable Member knows , with NGOs , the OSCE and candidate countries . 
As for children ' s rights , the STOP programme has co - financed 67 projects dealing with trafficking and sexual exploitation of children with a budget of EUR 6 . 5 m for the first five years . 
A new STOP programme is planned to start from this year and this will be open to accession countries . 
Moving on to more general issues , I mentioned the forthcoming communication on human rights and external relations . 
My aim is to adopt a more effective and coherent approach to policy and to spending and in particular to improve the management of our programmes in this area . 
Human rights projects are very different from projects to build bridges or reinforce primary education . 
NGOs and civil society partners are integral to their implementation . 
The projects are often carried out in sensitive or dangerous conditions in the field . 
Those who implement the projects may even see their own rights threatened , which is no doubt why NGOs often feel a little aggrieved that they then have to provide the Commission with a shoebox full of receipts when they return to the office . 
The European Union ' s financial procedures , including the financial regulation are , to put it mildly , not NGO - friendly , which begs the question : should we stop funding NGOs or should we change our procedures ? 
The former is clearly as impossible as it would be totally undesirable . 
We could not work without NGOs . 
Reform to our procedures , many of them determined by Member States in an era when NGOs barely existed , is going to take time but we are working on it , not least as part of the overall reform package . 
We will not , alas , see an overnight change . 
This brings me on to the budget and the Parliament ' s proposal for a joint declaration on yearly increases in human rights expenditure . 
The size of the budget cannot be divorced from the question of our capacity to manage it . 
Otherwise we will make too many promises which we simply cannot fulfil and when it comes to supporting NGOs you often operate on a shoestring . 
Broken promises can lead rapidly to bankruptcy . 
We have a backlog of projects to complete and we have underspent the human rights budget in the past so I would find it very difficult to justify an increase in spending until we have sorted this out . 
But I want to make this clear : I would like to put myself in a position as soon as I can where we spend every penny and can therefore justify spending a great deal more . 
The possibility of creating a human rights agency as foreseen in Vienna and Cologne could help us here . 
I believe that such an agency should be operational , not advisory . 
I will be exploring this in the communication . 
The potential for an agency should also be considered in the context of wider reform of our external assistance and of externalisation as a whole . 
I now turn to the issues raised in the Belder report which responds to the Commission ' s communication on countering racism , xenophobia and antisemitism in the candidate countries . 
I am responding to this on my own behalf and that of my colleague , Commissioner Verheugen . 
I would like to congratulate the authors of the comprehensive report . 
Of course , it criticises the lack of specific proposals in the Commission ' s communication but I should note that the adoption of that communication came after the resignation of the college in March 1999 when the Commission , and I put this gently , was not best placed to elaborate new proposals . 
I hope this response will set a few pointers for the future . 
The fight against racism is an essential element of the Union ' s human rights policies and of the pre - accession strategy . 
This has two main elements : adoption and implementation of the acquis by candidate countries including the 1996 Joint Action concerning racism and xenophobia and the 1951 Geneva Convention and the 1967 New York Protocol on Asylum Seekers and Refugees , and effective use of our cooperation programmes . 
The compatibility of legislation concerning minorities is raised during the screening process and during bilateral discussions and in association committees . 
For example , we have looked at language laws in Lithuania , Estonia and Slovakia , a subject that was raised during the debates , and legislation regarding the Roma in the Czech Republic and Slovakia . 
These discussions have produced concrete results . 
The second element , our cooperation programmes , include the PHARE national programmes , PHARE Democracy and the MEDA Programme . 
Under PHARE , reform of the police , criminal justice and asylum systems has been accorded a high priority in line with the rapporteurs ' proposals . 
This reform helps to bring about the necessary changes in attitudes within institutions . 
The goal of raising police awareness of racism and xenophobia was also incorporated in the framework of the European curriculum for the training of the police in Central and Eastern Europe . 
We will persevere with such measures . 
We are also open to opportunities for strengthening them . 
One central aim common to the Malmström and the Belder reports is the need to build on our relationship with NGOs in candidate countries . 
The new Access Programme which replaces the LIEN and Partnership Programmes aims to strengthen civil society . 
Finally , on the Roma , whose condition was mentioned by several speakers , the Commission is seeking to bring more coherence to its support for Roma communities . 
We intend to be associated with the meeting to be organised by the European Monitoring Centre to which European Parliament representatives are being invited - a meeting called in order to stimulate ideas for improving European Union assistance to Roma communities . 
These reports cover extremely important issues . 
They are issues of increasing concern to European Union citizens as they are daily assailed by media footage of human rights abuses , whether they be in the Caucasus , Colombia , the Balkans , Sierra Leone , China and so on . 
I look forward to the European Union taking up these abuses at the UN Commission on Human Rights in Geneva , which I will attend on 27 March . 
I am grateful to Parliament for its timely input . 
The Commission and Parliament are well placed to work together on human rights . 
We are well placed to give a strong lead to others . 
I am particularly looking forward to working with Members of this Parliament to ensure that the communication we produce later this year gives an intellectual and political lead on this issue and can be regarded by NGOs , parliamentarians and others as blazing a trail for discussion of these fundamental issues . 
Madam President , I understood my good friend ' s , Mr Seixas da Costa ' s , remarks as a defence of the sanctions against Austria , and I should therefore like to ask him , as a matter of form , whether he was tabling this proposal as President - in - Office of the Council , and therefore on behalf of the Council , or whether it was on behalf of the 14 governments . 
Madam President , I too should like to ask in what capacity you made this statement . 
Secondly , in speaking of subsidiarity , I meant points in the report which referred to areas of intervention in the rights of nation states which , according to the Treaty , clearly come within the remit of those states . 
My third comment , if you will allow , is addressed to you , Mr da Costa : what happens in one country of the European Union is of interest to the other countries , that is perfectly obvious . 
That is not least precisely why we are members of this European Union and it is to be commended that we obtain information and evince an interest . 
But evincing an interest also means , in my view , obtaining objective information about a country and levying criticism where criticism is due and then taking measures when transgressions have taken place and not preventatively or , where possible , on the grounds of political persuasion . 
Minister , I should like to call on you on behalf of the Austrian delegation to obtain this information , which neither you nor many or , presumably all of the 14 , have , in situ . 
If you want to know who elected this party which forms part of the coalition , namely the Freedom Party , then the answer is that 50 % of the workers who used to vote for Socialism have now voted for this party and that half the youth of Austria voted for this party . 
It was not right - wing extremists , although , of course , we do unfortunately have them in Austria , perhaps in the order of 3 to 5 % , just as other countries do . 
The motives here were different , however , and voters simply overwhelmingly voted the old government and Socialism out in favour of an alternative . 
If you wish to pass value judgements here , please ensure that you are in possession of all the facts first and then levy criticism where it is really due and not on the basis of supposition or suspicion . 
Madam President , Mr Pirker has not spoken on the agenda . 
Clever as he is , he has taken cover under a point of order to give a short , two - and - a - half minute speech as to what we must forgive him for as an Austrian who also comes from Carinthia . 
I should like it recorded that what Mr Pirker has said had nothing to do with the agenda . 
I call on the President of the Council on behalf of my Group to continue to be as vigilant and critical of racism and xenophobia as you have demonstrated here , in whatever capacity . 
Madam President , I am grateful for this opportunity to clarify once again the capacity in which I made those observations . 
Let there be no mistake : the statement by the President of the European Council and Portuguese Prime Minister was made on behalf of the 14 countries in the European Union apart from Austria . 
This statement was made in a context which , from the outset , as I explained in the speech that I made to this House on 2 February , had nothing to do with the workings of the Community ' s machinery . 
The 14 countries ' three levels of response as regards Austria are therefore bilateral in nature . 
The fact that this was channelled through the President of the Council was merely a question of coordinating the joint position of the various countries . 
I would like to reiterate and to emphasise what I have said about Austria ' s conduct at Community level up to now : I think I made it quite clear that Austria has been a loyal partner within the European Union and that nobody is questioning Austria ' s conduct . Nor is there any question of Austria infringing any of the provisions of Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty of Amsterdam . 
The bilateral sanctions are therefore exactly that . They are not sanctions within the operational framework of the Community . 
No formal aspect of the European Union ' s operational framework has come into play during the Portuguese presidency in relation to the Austrian situation . 
Certain informal aspects may have been involved , but at present , formally speaking , Austria ' s representations are being dealt with at Council Working Group level , at Council of Ministers level , and at the European Council which is to take place shortly . 
With regard to the political question which the honourable Member has put to me about the attitude of the Member States towards the effective operation of the Austrian Government , I would like to stress a point which has not always been sufficiently emphasised in relation to Austria : the current situation does not represent ' business as usual '  , neither for Austria in general nor for Austria ' s political life . 
It was not by chance that the party with the second largest vote in the Austrian elections was not invited to form the government . 
It was not by chance that a party that received a larger number of votes was invited to form the government , but that it then passed on to the party with the third largest number of votes . 
It was not by chance that the President of the Republic of Austria has obliged the two parties in the coalition government to make a declaration recognising a basic set of principles . 
It was not by chance at all ! 
That is also the reason why the present political situation in Austria is , of course , not ' business as usual ' and why , in the same way as the Austrians have doubts about this situation , we all have the right to entertain such doubts and to express them bilaterally . 
As regards Austria acting as a full partner within the Community , as it has done up to now , nothing will militate against Austria at Community level . 
That is quite clear . 
However , at bilateral level , we must have the responsibility , the right and the duty to be aware of what we regard as a certain violation of the atmosphere of trust which we can no longer take for granted , because of statements that certain individuals have made in the past and because of the political proposals that these individuals have made . 
This is a political point , it is a political statement , and we have drawn the relevant conclusions here bilaterally speaking , and bilaterally speaking no one can deny us the right to draw conclusions as regards our relations with Austria . 
We regret that this is how things have to be and we hope that matters will develop in Austria in such a way that we can act differently . 
Madam President , as my colleague Chris Patten has clearly said , it is my responsibility to set out the Commission ' s position on the other two reports being discussed this afternoon . These are the Haarder and Ludford reports . 
Firstly , the Commission shares the European Parliament ' s view that the new legal context , following the adoption of the Amsterdam Treaty , gives the Union increased competence and responsibility for human rights . 
In this respect the Commission congratulates the European Council ' s initiative to prepare an EU Charter of Fundamental Rights . This will give greater visibility to these rights and also , I hope , greater legal security if , as desired by both Parliament and the Commission , this Charter becomes a legally binding instrument under the supervision of the courts . 
In this context and as the personal representative of the Commission President to the convention responsible for preparing this Charter , I must defend the view that the Charter should be extended to third country nationals legally resident on the territory of Member States . 
The Commission is also pleased to note that its views are basically in agreement with those of the European Parliament on the nature and content of this Charter . 
This was also the case in yesterday ' s debate on the Duff and Voggenhuber report and it is also true with regard to the conclusions of the report by Mr Haarder whom I warmly congratulate . 
The Commission shares the concern for action , and not just words , in ensuring the coherence of the rules on human rights applied by the national courts and by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg or the Court of Justice of the European Communities . 
In this respect there is no doubt that the signature of the European Convention on Human Rights by the European Union would allow the hierarchy of the courts ' decisions to be clarified and would allow external supervision of Community law , as is already the case with the legal systems of the Member States . 
The signature of this Convention is certainly compatible with the preparation of a binding Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
With regard to the content of the Haarder report , I will particularly concentrate on the aspects which come directly within my area of competence within the Commission . 
The conclusions of the Tampere European Council provide a very clear political framework for the EU ' s policy on respecting and promoting migrants ' rights in the broad sense of the term . 
The Heads of State and Government underlined that the joint policies on immigration and asylum to be developed on the basis of the Amsterdam Treaty should be founded on principles which are clear to the people and which offer guarantees to those seeking protection in the European Union or requesting access to its territory . 
Furthermore , the Presidency ' s conclusions define the four pillars which will form the future basis of the joint European policy on asylum and immigration . These pillars are : partnership with the countries of origin , a common European asylum system , fair treatment for third country nationals and more efficient management of migratory flows . 
I must particularly stress the need for the European Union to have a comprehensive approach to immigration which covers political aspects , human rights and development questions in the countries and regions of origin and transit . The latter involve the fight against poverty , improvement of living conditions and job opportunities , prevention of conflicts , consolidation of democratic states and respect for human rights , including those of minorities . 
I wish to confirm the importance which the Union and its Member States attach to absolute respect for the right to ask for asylum on the basis of a full and comprehensive application of the Geneva Convention . 
I must also underline the intention to develop a vigorous policy on the integration of third country nationals legally resident on EU Member State territory . 
Finally , although these measures are needed to guarantee social peace in our Member States , we must recognise that the fight against illegal immigration must be strengthened and the protection of the rights of the victims of the criminal networks organising such immigration must be guaranteed . Particular attention must be paid to the situation of women ' s and children ' s rights . 
I therefore share the rapporteur ' s and Parliament ' s concerns . 
The Commission asks you to note that , in response to your concerns , our concerns and the requirements of the Tampere mandate , we intend during this year to submit all the main instruments of the asylum policy to Parliament and the Council . These consist of the joint procedures , the revision of the Dublin Convention and the final Eurodac instrument . 
However , at the same time , the Commission intends , in the autumn , to submit to Parliament a communication on immigration policy in the European Union . 
We must review the 1994 communication and update the approach to the questions of immigration policy in the Union in light of the Tampere conclusions . 
As for the inadequacies of the legal services which have been underlined during this debate , the Commission does not intend to tackle some of these albeit very interesting theoretical and practical questions , such as the career structure of national judges or the duration of trials in several Member States . This is because we should respect the principle of subsidiarity and recognise that the basic options must be the decision of each Member State . 
The Commission would underline in this respect that a green paper on legal aid represents a worthwhile contribution , both to the requirement to define common rules on the protection of defendants , such as the guarantee of assistance from interpreters and translators in cross - border trials , and to the establishment of a wider programme of mutual recognition of legal decisions . 
As for civil justice , the communitisation of several civil justice instruments is an efficient way of ensuring the effective legal consideration of human rights . 
The Commission has already proposed communitising all existing conventions not currently in force , particularly the one on the service of documents and the Brussels II Convention and the convention on bankruptcies . 
We have also proposed making the very important Brussels Convention of 1968 on Jurisdiction and the Enforcement of Judgements in Civil and Commercial Matters into a regulation . 
All these instruments are currently being examined by the Council . 
Even the United Kingdom and Ireland have decided to join the Member States on this and Denmark , which does not have the same capacity to participate in work on civil legal cooperation , is also seeking solutions which are currently being examined . 
Finally , with regard to children ' s and women ' s rights , although these matters specifically come under the competence of Member States , I can remind the House that the Commission and I have undertaken to submit a package of measures on these questions by the end of the year . 
These measures will aim to go beyond the joint action of February 1997 . 
They will consist of definitions , charges and penalties in the fight against the trade in human beings for the purposes of sexual exploitation and measures against the sexual exploitation of children . 
Turning now to the Ludford report , I very much welcome the opportunity to respond to Parliament ' s report on racism and xenophobia . 
The Union ' s commitment to supporting fundamental rights and fighting discrimination was made very clear in the Amsterdam Treaty and this is , for me , a crucial development of the European message . 
Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union introduces new powers to react in case of serious and persistent breaches of fundamental rights by a Member State . 
Article 13 of the EC Treaty provides for measures to combat discrimination on the grounds of sex , religion or belief , disability , age , sexual orientation and - of greatest relevance to us today in this debate - racial or ethnic origin in which ( to clarify the question raised by Mr Brie ) we include the fight against antisemitism . 
Many forces came together to reach agreement on Article 13 in the last Intergovernmental Conference , as the representative of the Council has already reminded us , and the Commission is determined to honour the Treaty commitment to a discrimination - free society . 
That is why we put forward our package of proposals to fight discrimination only two months after taking office last year . 
My message today , in the follow - up to the Ludford report , is that we still hope that Parliament will give priority to giving its opinion on this package so that we can adopt the two directives and the action plan by the end of this year . 
But besides that , I think that in many quarters there is growing recognition of the need for European action against racism . 
That is why in the Article 13 proposals we are able to make greater progress , I believe , on racial discrimination than on the other matters . 
We felt that it was politically possible . 
We sincerely hope that the facts will not deny our hope . 
As you know , the package of proposals that the Commission has put forward consists of two directives and an action programme . 
The two draft directives provide a legislative framework for legally enforceable rights including provisions on a number of key issues such as protection against harassment , scope for positive action , appropriate remedies and enforcement measures . 
The proposed directives are complemented by a proposal for an action programme . 
We know that , to combat discrimination , practical action is needed to reach out to people and help change discriminatory attitudes and behaviour on the ground . 
Getting the Member States to adopt the anti - discrimination package is now our top priority . 
Although it is important , the Article 13 package is only part of an on - going process to develop new ways of tackling racial discrimination . 
The Union is committed to mainstreaming the fight against discrimination on the basis of race and ethnic origin , and we recently organised a major conference on this issue . 
We intend to keep pushing the process forward , through the Structural Funds , the Research Framework Programme , the European Employment Strategy , the new EQUAL Initiative and the new Social Action Programme which we hope to adopt in the summer . 
We intend to use all these instruments to fight discrimination and , as you know , work has also started on the European Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
Parliament has a key role to play in this regard . 
It is vital for the Commission that the Parliament contributes to the growing momentum surrounding these proposals by delivering its opinions on the package as soon as possible , and by participating fully in the work of drafting the Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
I will conclude as I have started : the Charter will represent the high priority that the Union as a whole accords to the fight against racism and discrimination and to protection of human rights . 
I sincerely hope that , during our debate on this issue next year , we will be congratulating ourselves on achieving , with the Charter , a new tool to fight against racism and xenophobia in the Union . 
Madam President , allow me briefly to correct what the President - in - Office of the Council said . 
Two heads of government , Mr President - in - Office , have already been reprimanded by their parliaments for the steps which they initiated against Austria . 
You therefore had no right to speak on behalf of their countries ; on the contrary , you obviously spoke as the head of a socialist party . 
At most , Mr President - in - Office , you can therefore only speak of twelve countries . 
Mrs Flemming , the debate on Austria should not be restarted as we have already had an exchange of views on this issue . 
I will give the floor to Mr Schulz who wanted to raise a point of order on a personal challenge made in yesterday ' s debate . 
Madam President , I seldom make use of these rules but I must do so now for the record . 
During the debate , Mr Gollnisch , a member of the French extreme right , attacked me personally . 
I should like to state the following for the record : I have nothing to take back as regards my statement that the extreme right is abusing this House for rabble - rousing purposes . 
Mr Gollnisch stated for my benefit during his speech that his family , and these were his words , would never accept fascism . 
That is where Mr Gollnisch clearly differs from his family , because he himself accepts fascism or , to put it plainly , he is a fascist . 
Thirdly , I should like to state for the record that the fact that such speeches are given here fills me with consternation , as does the fact , which I ascertained from his loud applause , that Caudillos Le Pen is still allowed to sit in this House , despite the fact that he has already lost his eligibility for office on account of his prize fighting activities in the French election campaign . 
Mr Schulz , we have noted your statement . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon . 
Eurodac
The next item is the joint debate on : 
The oral questions by Mrs Terrón i Cusí , on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists ( B5 - 0013 / 2000 ) , by Mr Ceyhun and Mrs Boumediene - Thiery , on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance ( B5 - 0017 / 2000 ) and by Mr Pirker , on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats ( B5 - 0019 / 2000 ) to the Council , on Eurodac . 
Mr President - in - Office of the Council , firstly I would like to thank the Presidency - in - Office of the Council for their high level presence in this House and for their positive attitude . 
Last year , this Parliament was consulted twice about the establishment of a system for comparing fingerprints . 
In principle , the system is intended to correctly implement the Dublin Convention . 
On 13 April 1999 , this Parliament rejected the Council ' s proposal to extend the Eurodac system to illegal immigrants by means of a protocol . 
This Parliament was then consulted again in accordance with the provisions of Amsterdam . 
We were once again told that this system has to be developed in order to correctly implement the Dublin Convention . 
This seems all very well to me , with the limits introduced by Parliament in its last report , with the amendments which ranged from our reservations about the inclusion of children under 14 in the system to the request that this Eurodac system be only applied to the Dublin Convention . 
Given that we have been informed that none of our suggestions are going to be accepted , I would like to ask the Council whether it is prepared to hold a genuine dialogue with Parliament . 
This is not a trivial question . 
We are beginning to build and implement the instruments for the ' communitisation ' of the area of freedom , security and justice and , as we will never tire of saying in this House , this cannot be done without the national parliaments and without the European Parliament , because these issues are far too important to the citizens not to be endorsed through a strong social consensus . 
The other question I would like to ask the Council is whether it agrees that this system should be administrated by the Commission , in which case the Commission should be provided with adequate staff and resources . 
Returning to the content of the report , the non - acceptance of Parliament ' s amendments and the ambiguity of some of its provisions , as well as certain information that I have received , lead me to ask you , and to insist once again , what exactly are the Council ' s intentions with regard to the scope and functions of the Eurodac system . I would like to ask why other foreign nationals have been included and , especially , Mr President - in - Office of the Council , whether the Council has any intention to extend the use of the Eurodac system beyond the application of the Dublin Convention . 
I await your responses to this question and I would like to thank you once again for coming to answer this oral question before the debate on the new Eurodac Regulations , which I hope will also reach this House . 
Mr President , as far as the Council Presidency is concerned , I for one am delighted that we are currently cultivating extremely positive contacts , especially as regards cooperation in the domestic policy area . 
We have all managed very well to really work together with you , and the same applies of course to Commissioner Vitorino . 
But when it comes to EURODAC , we have a problem . 
We here in Parliament have passed a resolution and have made clear why we cannot accept EURODAC in the form which the Council and the Commission wish it to take . 
And we have given our reasons . 
We have humane reasons , we have reasons when it comes to children , as far as the age limit is concerned ; for example we cannot accept the age limit of 14 . 
We highlighted all these problems in a resolution by Parliament . 
For this reason , it is of course most important for us , for my group , to see how seriously you take Parliament , how you deal with our proposals and , in the final analysis , we hope that we will continue to be able to report gladly and proudly on how well we are cooperating together . 
The question is whether you are willing to lend us an ear when something gives us cause for concern and we urgently need your support . 
Mr President , esteemed Commissioners , Mr President - in - Office of the Council , the debate on EURODAC and the implementation of this system is something of a never ending story . 
It started back in Dublin in 1990 . 
In November 1999 , we here in Parliament , and I assume you too Commissioner , believed that we were on the home stretch and were finally going to be able to implement EURODAC . 
Set targets were tabled on several occasions and , on balance , we welcomed the fact , and I personally was pleased , and that ' s a rare occurrence , when you said , following the vote in Parliament , that you would not accept the proposals adopted by a majority in Parliament which we , I should add , had voted against . 
That too was a very positive aspect . 
All in all , I would have been pleased to see this system implemented for the simple reason that it is this system alone which makes Dublin enforceable and because it allows the jurisdiction of the Member State responsible for the asylum procedure to be established unequivocally , thereby indirectly dividing the burden to a certain extent . 
Plus , we could then prevent multiple applications for asylum and abuse of the asylum system and this , in turn , would allow us , as it were , to fight illegal immigration indirectly . 
In other words , it is , as a whole , a system which must be seen as very positive and absolutely necessary in the context of asylum and immigration policy and the responsibility of the Member States . 
What filled me with consternation was the fact that the Council then upset the whole applecart at its meeting on 2 December by refusing to accept that implementing powers should remain with the Commission , i . e . that the competent regulatory committee should be able to act under the chairmanship of the Commission . 
The upshot of this was that we failed to achieve what we wanted to do , i . e . to communitise the system ; on the contrary , the Council upset our plans by more or less announcing yet again that it was staking its claim . 
As a result , it is not the Commission which controls this instrument in the interests of the Community ; on the contrary the initiative is again with the Council and , as a result , the Commission and , in the final analysis , Parliament too are excluded . 
We will not and cannot accept this because it involves consequences which are so far - reaching that , in the end , there will be no control over the efficiency of the system , it will no longer be possible to collate statistics for the purposes of analysis and action and a delay has been caused which is absolutely unacceptable on account of the fact that we need this system . 
My question to you is this : when can we really expect to see the EURODAC system which we have waited so long for up and running ? 
How will the system actually be configured ? 
Will it comply with the rules and with our requests for the Commission to be fully responsible for implementation , because then we would have achieved our own necessary goal ; we would have re - Europeanised one part , because it makes sense here to actually implement this communitisation . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I shall reply very directly to the questions that have been raised , so as to avoid any possible doubt about the Council ' s position , and I think it is indeed important for that position to be clarified . 
