With regard to the scope of the Eurodac system , I would like to recall that Article 1 of the proposal for a regulation on establishing this system is very clear , so let me quote it :  " A system known as ' Eurodac ' is hereby established , the purpose of which shall be to assist in determining which Member State is to be responsible pursuant to the Dublin Convention , " I repeat ,  " pursuant to the Dublin Convention , for examining an application for asylum lodged in a Member State , and otherwise to facilitate the application of the Dublin Convention under the conditions set out in this Regulation "  . 
This is the sole objective of the regulation , which is an instrument pursuant to the Dublin Convention and which goes no further than that objective . 
As regards the role of the European Commission , Article 3 of the proposal for a regulation clearly defines that a Central Unit shall be set up within the Commission . 
Furthermore , the Commission has , as we know , started to work on this , and preparations for establishing a Central Unit are under way . 
Concerning the role of the European Parliament , I would like to clarify something that can only be the result of a misunderstanding . 
I would like to make it very clear that in no way has the Council stated its opposition to all Parliament ' s amendments , nor has it called upon the European Commission to come up with any new proposals . 
Some of Parliament ' s amendments were in fact incorporated into the proposal for a regulation , which is a point I wish to stress . 
In addition , I would like to remind you that all the Justice and Home Affairs Council ' s proposals on this matter have been presented to this House , which has , in fact , given its opinion on this matter on three occasions : 15 January 1998 , 18 March 1999 and 11 November 1999 . 
At present , as you know , and for reasons that are not entirely relevant to this issue , but have more to do with other circumstances of a political nature , it has not been possible to reach a consensus within the Council on the new proposal to be submitted to this House . 
We hope that this will happen shortly , perhaps even during the Portuguese Presidency . 
