With regard to the other questions raised here , the first was the minimum age for taking fingerprints , which has been set at 14 years . 
I recognise that there are some concerns about this , but I would like to say that this is in line with the practices followed in Member States , which in some cases even allow fingerprints to be taken from children under 14 . 
I would like to highlight an important aspect which was probably not taken into consideration when discussing this age limit : an ever increasing number of applications for asylum are submitted by minors , and such situations need to be monitored using technical procedures of this kind . 
As regards the involvement of the European Parliament and of the courts , I think that Title IV of the Treaty of Amsterdam is sufficiently clear about the role of this Parliament and the Court of Justice in this field . 
I believe that the need to safeguard privacy is properly covered by the provisions of Article 18 of the proposal for a regulation , to which I would like to draw your attention , and which , in addition , refers to the rights already enshrined in Directive 95 / 46 . 
Furthermore , as a result of Article 1 of the proposal for a regulation , and I think it is very important that this should be reiterated here , it is clear that the application of Eurodac will , at all times , be governed by the principles enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights and in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child . 
I believe that these points mean we can say that this is a safe system without any aspects that could jeopardise citizens ' rights . 
But we have to recognise that the creation of a set of EU mechanisms for regulating all these issues relating to applications for asylum needs to be subject to rigorous technical scrutiny , failing which it could be perceived as implying a loss of citizens ' rights . 
Mr President , the statements by the President - in - Office of the Council go straight to the heart of the problem facing us here . 
The Social Democrats are divided , I make no bones about the fact , as to how to deal with fingerprinting of under 18 - year olds . 
Some members are saying we should not fingerprint fourteen - to eighteen - year - olds . 
I personally take a different view on this . 
You cannot advocate reducing the voting age to sixteen and still say that an eighteen - year - old should not be fingerprinted . 
It is incomprehensible . 
It comes down to how this system is seen under the rule of law . 
If you guarantee that the Council has no objection to leaving implementing powers definitively with the Commission and allowing us in Parliament to exercise a control function , at least in the area of Commission jurisdiction , then that is considerable progress . 
However , the Council has not so far given us to understand this in so many words , which is why I listened to what you said with pleasure . 
Because I should like to draw your attention to the following point : if we create systems at European level which can directly violate people ' s basic freedoms - and the anthropometric treatment of a person , compulsory treatment of a person is a violation of his individual rights - if we create institutions at European level which have these rights then the Executive must be subject to parliamentary scrutiny and the people affected by the measures must have legal recourse , both of which are lacking in almost every system which we have created within the framework of internal security in the European Union . 
There is a lack of parliamentary scrutiny and no precise guaranteed legal recourse . 
It is there in principle , but it has never been accurately described . 
The same applies to parliamentary scrutiny . 
We therefore say that if implementing powers remain with the Commission , if the regulatory committee is set up under the chairmanship of the Commission , then we agree . 
If not , then we must tell the Council that there is no question of the Council taking implementing powers away from the Commission , not if it expects the Community budget to finance the system . 
Otherwise Parliament would have to reconsider the budget and the question of financing the system from the community budget . 
And believe me , we shall do so . 
The purpose of the Dublin Convention and Eurodac is to allocate to a single Member State responsibility for examining an asylum application , and the justification for the proposed regulation is that there is a need to extend fingerprinting to certain categories of illegal immigrants on the grounds that a substantial number of them will have claimed asylum previously or intend to do so . 
The problem is that some have not and will not , so this means that the proposed regulation goes beyond the strict terms of Dublin by guessing at or anticipating the existence of an asylum application . 
Thus the Dublin Convention is , in the words of the UK House of Lords Select Committee on the European Communities , a shaky edifice on which to construct a system for taking and exchanging fingerprint data on those who have not yet made or may not make an asylum application . 
This is a legally uncertain basis for legislation and that makes me unhappy . 
There is also an absence of clarity in the definition of the illegal immigrants to whom the regulation will apply . 
Member States are required to fingerprint every third - country national over 14 who is apprehended in connection with the irregular crossing of their border - that is not very precise . 
Fingerprinting is a serious invasion of privacy and the compatibility of such requirements with the European Convention on Human Rights needs to be carefully weighed . 
I am not sure that this has really been done . 
There are also data protection worries , which is why Parliament wanted to extend the provisions on erasing data to include , for instance , those who obtain any kind of legal status to remain in a Member State even if not full refugee status . 
I am glad to see the amended proposal takes up Parliament ' s demand to erase the data when an individual has got a subsidiary or temporary form of protection , but could I enquire whether this would cover for example - in the system I know best - the UK ' s exceptional leave to remain ? 
Finally , Mr President , whatever the justification for widening the Eurodac fingerprinting system to some categories of illegal immigrants , I am personally not convinced that this proposal is legally watertight . 
Are the Council and the Commission so convinced ? 
