Mr Turmes , the extension of codecision on legislative matters is an issue which the Intergovernmental Conference has been considering and , as you know , the more radical position traditionally adopted by many Member States is that all legislative decisions adopted by a qualified majority in the Council should be submitted to the European Parliament under the codecision process . 
Although this position has been explicitly welcomed in the ICG , there are some Member States who advocate a case - by - case approach on the use of the codecision procedure , even where legislative decisions are concerned . 
With regard to ratification of international agreements , I have already been able to raise this issue at the ICG , and when it was first discussed this request and traditional position of the European Parliament did not receive what might be called a ready welcome from the Member States . 
Although this item is still on the table , as all these issues are kept on the agenda until the end of the conference , it does seem to us at this stage that there is unlikely to be any significant progress on this . 
Nevertheless , we will continue to maintain a dialogue with the European Parliament on this subject . 
Next Tuesday I shall be attending a meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at which I will make sure to discuss this issue and to explain in a little more detail how the ICG preparatory group is dealing with questions like this , and in particular the list of requests and proposals presented by the European Parliament , which we hope will be supplemented by the resolution to be voted upon on 23 March . 
Question No 6 by ( H - 0160 / 00 ) : 
Subject : Compensation for victims of fascist war Many rulings by Greek courts have confirmed that Greek citizens are entitled to compensation as victims of the nazi regime , while the war reparations which Germany owes Greece remain in abeyance and have not yet been paid . 
Repayment of a loan which Germany extracted from the Bank of Greece during the occupation in 1943 also remains outstanding . 
In the light of the recent agreement signed by Germany on compensation of DM 10 billion for forced labour in German industry , will the Council take steps to ensure that the victims of the fascist war are given their rightful compensation and that the loans extracted during the occupation are repaid , bearing in mind that , since the unification of Germany , not even the formal reason that Germany adduced for not settling these legitimate and valid claims now applies ? 
I can answer the honourable Member ' s question quite easily : this issue does not fall within the competencies of the Council . 
It is a matter for bilateral relations between Greece and German and the Council is not , therefore , willing to take any action , let alone the action recommended by the honourable Member . 
Mr President , the reply by the President - in - Office puts me in mind of the reply by Pontius Pilate . 
How exactly do things stand ? 
During the occupation , the German Government forced the Greek Government to give it a loan , which today , with interest and inflation , totals some USD 25 billion . 
This loan was signed and sealed and represents an obligation . 
The point at issue , to get to the crux of the matter , is a transaction between two Member States of the European Union and the Council of Europe cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that Germany is clearly using its power to refuse to honour its commitments . 
It collects every last cent of the loans which it grants . 
The other issue is the tremendous damage caused by Germany ' s occupying forces in Greece . 
This comes to some USD 40 billion . 
Other countries have been paid . Greece has not . 
Why ? 
Of course , the Greek Governments bear some responsibility , but at some point all this needs to be analysed . 
Germany has acknowledged its obligation from time to time . However , it has failed to honour it on various pretexts . 
Now there are no longer any excuses and it is duty - bound to pay and the Council cannot wash its hands . 
I consider the reply by the President - in - Office to be unacceptable . 
I can assure Mr Korakas that the Council is perfectly willing to intervene in this matter , as long as he can explain to us what the legal basis for doing so would be , under the Treaties . 
Question No 7 by ( H - 0162 / 00 ) : 
Subject : Support for European films European films are highly important to the cultural diversity and the cultural heritage both of the individual countries and of Europe . 
80 to 90 % of the films showing in Sweden are , however , American . 
Up to 50 % state aid for film production is allowed in the EU at present . 
The Commission is said to be considering lowering the limit for State aid , i . e . to reduce the exemption for cultural support to a maximum of 30 % . 
This would be a threat to European film production , as producing films is expensive and commercially very risky , especially in smaller countries . 
Does the Council agree that State aid is important to promote European culture ? 
Does the Council not consider it important to encourage diversed European film production ? 
Mr President , Mrs Hedkvist Petersen ' s question is a very important one , but we do not have any information to the effect that the Commission is considering reducing state aids in this field . 
In fact , the Council understands that as part of its programme , the Commission is holding discussions with Member States on this very subject . 
I would like to explain that at national level this type of support is a matter for Member States , within certain legal limits laid down in the Treaty . 
On the other hand , the existing MEDIA II programme and the future MEDIA - PLUS programme provide complementary financial assistance with a view to strengthening the presence of European cinema . 
This is one of the key steps the European Union has been taking in order to maintain and protect its cultural diversity and forms part of the guidelines contained in its own position in relation to the WTO negotiations , in particular as regards the audiovisual industry . 
I would like to thank the Council ' s representative for his reply . 
Firstly , I would like to say that there is an enormous difference between , for example , producing cars or lorries and producing a film . 
We are aware that film production is dependent on aid , as it is a combination of culture and commercial production . 
We also know that European film , particularly when produced in languages with few speakers , cannot easily maintain as large a film production as one would wish . 
Therefore , aid for both national and European film production is extremely important , as is the opportunity to continue the practice of accepting up to 50 percent State aid for film production . 
I would , however , like to ask the Council ' s representative whether he does not consider it important , with the help of this practice , to be able to give up to 50 percent in aid to the production of European film in those languages with few speakers . 
Mrs Hedkvist Petersen , I am of course especially conscious of the point you have made about the Union ' s smaller Member States . 
We are also concerned about this . 
As you know , in the past all the Member States of the Union were authorised to provide special support for their film industries , particularly bearing in mind the specific need for cultural diversity within the European Union and because it was necessary to ensure that account was taken of this specific need , thus going beyond a purely economic view of the film industry . 
We hope that it will be possible to maintain this support in future , and we also hope that this can be totally reconciled with the new WTO rules , especially in the new round which we hope will start sooner or later . 
At present , there is still a 50 % limit on state aid in relation to the overall cost of any given project , but this percentage could even be raised to 60 % in special cases envisaged in the programme . 
At the moment we have no indication that the Commission is considering a lowering of this limit , let alone the amount and the percentage mentioned by the honourable Member . 
Question No 8 by ( H - 0166 / 00 ) : 
Subject : Information for the public Will the Council draw up a list of parties which the electorate can safely vote for without running the risk of their country being ostracised ? 
Mr President , it is clear that the European Union does not have the power to intervene in the constitutional arrangements of the Member States , no more than it is for the Union to draw up a so - called positive list of parties for whom electors may vote . 
If we went down that path we would certainly be entering very dangerous territory . 
This does not mean that the idea behind this question does not make some sense politically speaking : in some countries , including my own , a Nazi or fascist party does not have the right to register with the constitutional court . 
This means that it cannot be accepted as a legitimate party in the democratic process . Other countries have different systems and these have just as many virtues as my own . 
What we have to recognise is that when we are considering a broader Community , no situation affecting democratic rights in one country can be a matter of indifference to the other countries and their citizens . 
We are all European citizens and we are all citizens of a European Union which is underpinned , politically speaking , by a basic set of principles . 
If these principles are at risk , we have the right - and the duty - to sound the alarm . 
But whether lists of parties are desirable or otherwise , I hope that this never becomes a matter for the European Union . 
Yes , but the problem , of course , is that this is what we are concerned with here . 
Because Austria has a county mayor in Klagenfurt who has expressed himself in a way for which you and I feel equal revulsion , you have punished a country with sanctions and you are punishing a people with sanctions , including those individuals who may have voted against the party in question , and this without specifying what their crime entails . 
Up until now , it is only opinions you are punishing and not actions . 
If it were a question of actions , it would perhaps be Denmark which should be punished for a ban on immigrants of a kind which the FPÖ has not been able to put into practice . 
It is therefore opinions which you have punished and not actions . 
I should therefore like to know , when I next vote , if Portugal and other countries - outside the Council - will wish to propose sanctions against my country in the event , for example , of the present Danish government ' s incorporating ministers from the Socialist People ' s Party or Unity List , which are both opposed to Economic and Monetary Union , or if they will wish to prevent the appointment of a government including Fogh Rasmussen from the Left party if he relies upon support from the Danish People ' s Party which , in many newspapers , is described as a party equivalent to the FPÖ in Austria . 
Knowing the answer to these questions would be useful as a guide to the consumer , but it may well be that the action taken by the 14 Prime Ministers is a source of regret . 
Mr Bonde knows what I have said in previous answers : in the specific case of Austria , and I know that that is what is behind his question , we are not working at Community level , but through bilateral relations . 
The attitude adopted by some Member States towards the Austrian Government related to their negative perception of the new Austrian Government , which does not affect the Community framework . 
We are not working at Council level here . 
The European Union has not taken a single discriminatory measure against Austria . 
These 14 Member States decided of their own free will to make plain to the Austrian authorities their displeasure at the kind of government they had established , and above all at the fact that they had included in the government a party which advocates , or has advocated in the past - it is difficult to distinguish between the past and the present in the Freedom Party ' s statements - a certain ideology and a certain way of interpreting European values . 
However , Mr Bonde , you should not , of course , confuse economic and monetary union with Nazism , they are in fact slightly different . 
Of course , all parties have every right to oppose economic and monetary union , the Schengen Agreement , or anything else ; they can even oppose the European Union itself . 
As you know , there are parties which are opposed to the European Union , but that does not mean that they should be seen as undemocratic . 
The fact is , and you know this as well as I do , Mr Bonde , that there are parties which promote ideologies which jeopardise the system itself and which affect the set of values which are the very essence of the European Union , which are ultimately part of the justification for creating the European Union in the first place . 
It is therefore quite natural , Mr Bonde , that certain governments should feel somewhat uneasy . 
This uneasiness is only being reflected in bilateral relations . 
We are not confusing Community matters with bilateral matters . 
Question No 9 by ( H - 0169 / 00 ) : 
Subject : Secrecy of legislative proceedings in the Council During Question Time in January , in answer to my question , the President - in - Office said that all information about legislative sessions in the Council , such as who voted which way , the minutes and the summary record was readily available to the public . 
I expressed my doubts , but , further to my supplementary question , the President - in - Office undertook to write to me , before Question Time in February , a letter giving full details of where and how this information was readily available to the public . 
I have received no letter from the President - in - Office , which confirms my worst suspicions about the obsessive secretiveness of the Council . 
Will the President - in - Office now finally tell me where this information - who voted and how , the minutes , and the summery record - is readily available to the public , as he claimed during Question Time in January ? 
