Mr President , it is possible to keep track of the Council ' s work by means of the monthly reports prepared by the General Secretariat of the Council and which are published on the Council ' s web site , covering legislative and non - legislative acts approved since January 1999 and including the results of votes , explanations of vote and statements for the minutes when the Council is acting in its legislative capacity . 
In the case of definitive legislative acts approved by the Council , the reports include the results of any votes , and any statements for the minutes made by the Council , the Commission and the Member States . 
However , the only authentic texts are , of course , definitively approved minutes from which extracts are published by the General Secretariat of the Council on the Internet via the EUDOR web site , which is managed by the Office for Official Publications of the European Communities , under " Transparency of the Council ' s legislative activities "  . 
This is in fact one of the achievements of the much maligned Treaty of Amsterdam which people need to be regularly reminded about . 
After each meeting of the Council , a press release is issued which contains information on decisions taken by the Council . 
This indicates for which decisions statements for the minutes were authorised for release to the public and which are obtainable from the Press Service . 
It is also possible to obtain information on the legislative transparency of the Council by e - mail . 
The public ' s right of access to Council documents is covered by Article 255 of the Treaty , which stipulates that the Council shall determine general principles and limits for exercising this right within two years of the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam . 
It should be borne in mind that this provision of the Treaty of Amsterdam makes it possible for the various institutions to regulate access to their own documents , and we need to be aware of this , given the particularly delicate nature of certain issues under discussion in highly sensitive fields , such as the common foreign and security policy and justice and home affairs . 
These provisions need to reflect a number of concerns which , whilst preserving the rules of transparency , cannot be allowed to turn transparency into a means of making any Council activity totally ineffective . 
For this reason , as I have already said , this article stipulates that the rules of procedure of the European Parliament , the Council and the Commission should contain specific provisions regarding access to their documents . 
This issue comes under the general transparency rules of the European institutions which were , in fact , defined in the conclusions of the last European Council , in Helsinki , and I quote , as " an important element in bringing the Union closer to its citizens and improving efficiency "  . 
During the Finnish presidency , substantial progress was made in the field of access to documents by means of modern information technology , and in particular the Internet . 
Furthermore , a Council Decision on improving the provision of information relating to the Council ' s legislative activities and the public register of Council documents was approved . 
In accordance with this decision , and let me quote once again ,  " The General Secretariat of the Council shall make accessible to the public a list of the items on the provisional agendas of meetings of the Council and its preparatory bodies referring to cases where the Council acts in its legislative capacity "  . 
The current presidency has been following this practice . 
The decision stipulates that the public register of Council documents shall also include references to the document number and the subject matter of classified documents , with the exception of cases where disclosure of this information could undermine protection of the public interest , protection of the individual and of privacy , protection of commercial and industrial secrecy , protection of the Community ' s financial interests , and / or protection of confidentiality as requested by the natural or legal person who supplied any of the information contained in the document or as required by the legislation of the Member State which supplied any of that information . 
From the outset , the Portuguese presidency has declared its commitment to initiate discussions on public access to documents and its intention to entrust this dossier to the " Friends of the Presidency " group as soon as the Commission presented the proposal for a regulation on public access to European Parliament , Council and Commission documents . 
This proposal was presented to the Commission , in the College of Commissioners , on 26 January , and , as I have said , it attempts to fulfil the objectives of increasing transparency , and in particular proposes significant amendments to the 1999 Code of Conduct . 
The presidency immediately initiated discussion of the proposal , which was presented at the Coreper meeting on 2 February and which was examined at two subsequent meetings . 
This set of tasks has therefore , Mr President , been developed by the Council on the basis of Commission proposals which I believe suggest a real will to increase the transparency of this work . 
I would like to thank the President - in - Office for a very long , detailed and serious reply . 
Because I do not speak Portuguese I shall study the reply before the next question time and come back to you on it in April . 
For now I would like you to give me a very simple reply to a very simple question of principle . 
Do you accept that for legislation in a democratic environment , in which we are in the European Union , the public , whom the laws affect , should be able to see and hear what their elected representatives are doing to pass the laws ? 
I do not think it is the case in the Council that the public is actually able to see and hear everything that their representatives say and do when passing laws . 
Would you accept that principle ? 
Mr Newton Dunn , this is a complex issue and it relates , of course , to the type of legislative practice involved and in particular to the degree of similarity between the legislative practices adopted in the European Union and in its Member States . 
In the Member States , there are legislative powers associated with parliaments in which debates are held openly and in public , and there are legislative powers which , either because they are delegated by parliament or as a matter of law , are a matter for the government . 
Discussion of legislative proposals within the government is not in the public domain , but the result of these legislative proposals is in the public domain , whether they come before parliament or not . 
At European Union level , I do not believe that we can go any further than the existing provisions , that is to say making the results of discussions in the Council public , and in particular making public the way Member States voted and explanations of votes and statements for the minutes . 
I think that I have said enough on this subject now but , as I have said , this is my personal view , given that this is basically about the underlying philosophy of the European Union ' s legislative procedures . 
Mr President , during the Finnish presidency , we were able to get through twenty questions in question time . 
Last time we covered twelve with Portugal as the country holding the presidency . 
It seems as if we will not get through any more than that today either . 
But my actual question concerns the fact that the President of the European Commission , Mr Prodi , has sent a letter to the European Parliament criticising the Parliamentary Ombudsman , Jacob Söderman , for having taken part in a public debate and wanting various documents to be widely accessible , as well as having presented his own point of view that there should be more public access to documents in the EU . 
I would ask the representative of the Council whether he thinks the President of the Commission ' s action was right and justified , and whether the Council also wants to restrict the Ombudsman ' s freedom of speech on this topic . 
 .  ( PT ) I have two points to make , Mr Seppänen . 
Firstly , if that was how Parliament saw things , we could even give not twenty , but thirty answers to honourable Members ' questions . 
But I shall reply in 15 seconds , omitting the detail which would reflect the presidency ' s desire to deal more thoroughly with questions and to go as far as possible in giving specific replies to honourable Members ' concerns . 
But we can also opt for a bureaucratic , officious , quick , artificial and probably unsatisfactory answer . 
We would then - in quantitative terms - be more successful in giving answers to this House . 
I have been here since 9 o ' clock in the morning and I do not think that the Council can be accused of not doing a serious job in answering honourable Members ' questions . 
With regard to your question about this disagreement between Parliament and the Commission , it is obvious that the Council would be the last institution to get involved in this disagreement and will leave those two institutions to sort out this potential argument between them . 
Just to follow on from Mr Newton Dunn ' s question regarding the decisions made in secret in the Council , could the Minister possibly list those legislatures in the world , that he referred to , where decisions are made in secret ? 
I would be grateful if you could rephrase your question , Mr Nicholson , because I did not grasp what you were saying . 
Excuse me , but could you put the question in a different way ? 
You were saying that the Council is not alone in being a legislature that makes its decisions in secret . 
I just wondered if you could give us examples of other similar organisations in government that make these decisions in the same way . 
Unless I am very much mistaken , Mr Nicholson , the majority of governments do not broadcast meetings at which they are acting in their legislative capacity . 
Governments ' legislative role is normally exercised in restricted , closed meetings in every country in the world . 
I am not aware of any governments who perform their legislative work in open meetings , only parliaments do that , and as legislative power is divided between parliaments and governments there are two different ways of dealing with the legislative process . 
Therefore , to the best of my knowledge , in the majority of countries throughout the world , governments do their work in closed sessions not open to the public . 
Mr Seixas da Costa had informed us that he had to leave at 7 . 00 p . m . 
He has also pointed out that he has been working with us since 9 . 00 a . m . 
I believe that today he has earned his salary as a minister and as President - in - Office of the Council . 
We will therefore conclude questions to the Council and thank him for being here . 
Questions Nos 10 to 38 will be replied to in writing . 
That concludes Questions to the Council . 
 ( The sitting was closed at 7 . 00 p . m . ) 
Mr Evans has the floor . 
Evans , Robert ( PSE ) . 
Mr President , my point of order relates to Rules 148 and 135 regarding the distribution of the minutes and particularly regarding roll - call votes . 
All Members have , this morning , received a booklet containing 113 pages of roll - call votes . 
I am sure this is of interest to a number of Members and there will be a few Members who want to look at it . 
But in the interests of economy and the environment , I would suggest that Parliament look again , or ask Parliament ' s services to look again , at the interpretation of the word ' distribution '  . 
Perhaps the results of roll - call votes could be distributed on the Intranet or made available to Members who need them so that we do not have the waste and the superfluous nature of everybody being distributed with a 113 - page document listing roll - call votes . 
I wonder if you could ask the services to have another look at this please , President . 
Thank you , Mr Evans . 
Your comments will be passed on , not to the services , of course , but to the Bureau . 
If you were also to add the cost of each of those votes to Parliament ' s budget , there would be even more cause for concern . 
EU - Mexico Interim Agreement
The next item is the report ( A5 - 0066 / 2000 ) by Mrs Ferrer , on behalf of the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy , on the proposal for a Council decision on the Community position within the EC - Mexico Joint Council on the implementation of Articles 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 and 12 of the Interim Agreement on trade and trade - related matters [ 5965 / 1 / 2000 - C5 - 0076 / 2000 - 2000 / 0024 ( CNS ) ] . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , Commissioner , the debate I am opening under the very long title you have just announced represents the final phase of Parliament ' s work , carried out in close contact with the Commission , to strengthen relations with Mexico on the basis of the principles and values which underpin our democratic system . 
In May 1999 Parliament gave its assent to an Economic Partnership , Political Coordination and Cooperation Agreement , signed in 1997 between the European Community and its Member States , on the one hand , and Mexico , on the other . Once it has been ratified by all the Member States , it will replace the cooperation agreement signed between the Community and Mexico in 1991 . 
In May 1998 Parliament gave its assent to a provisional interim agreement on trade and related issues associated with the 1997 agreement . 
The aim was to enable negotiations on liberalising the trade aspects of the global agreement falling within the Community ' s competence to begin as soon as possible , without having to wait for ratification by the fifteen Member States to be completed . 
Now that these negotiations have been concluded and the Council has expressed its view on their content , it falls to Parliament , in response to the Council ' s formal consultation , to give its opinion on the results of the negotiations . 
Here I want to thank the Commission for making this consultation by the Council possible in close cooperation with Parliament - I am delighted about that and I hope it will set a precedent . 
However , I am sorry it did not adopt the commitment of the previous Commission to keep us informed of the progress of the negotiations , given the importance of the issues involved . 
Turning to the substance of my report , the first thing I want to highlight is that , although we are dealing with an implementation agreement exclusively concerned with trade , there is a political dimension to bear in mind in expressing our opinion . 
This is the case because the text my report covers is set in the context of the Economic Partnership , Political Coordination and Cooperation Agreement , and that agreement is a reflection of the will to promote a genuinely democratic political system , respect for human , social and environmental rights and a fairer social balance , thanks to the greater economic development the liberalisation of trade will generate . 
In fact , Article 1 of that agreement makes respect for democratic principles and human rights , in the widest sense , an essential factor and the very foundation of the agreement . 
Again , the inclusion of a clause on fulfilment of obligations , providing for the agreement to be suspended in case of failure to meet the obligations laid down in Article 1 , also guarantees the commitment of the parties to democracy and respect for fundamental rights . 
In addition , by institutionalising cooperation between the European Union and Mexico , especially on human rights issues , social affairs and the fight against poverty , an instrument is being created which could be extremely useful for reducing the social inequalities which persist in Mexico and for improving the living conditions of the less advantaged strata of the population . 
My second point , relating to the content of the negotiations on the implementation of Articles 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 and 12 of the interim agreement , covering trade in goods , public procurement , competition , the consultation mechanism for questions relating to intellectual property and dispute settlement , is to highlight the fact that this package of measures represents a good agreement . 
Although for certain sectors there may be flaws - I am thinking specifically of the textiles sector , where the rules of origin issue causes great concern - the effects will be beneficial for both the European Union and Mexico . For the European Union , because the establishment of a free trade area will enable it to rebuild the presence Member States had in Mexican markets before the NAFTA agreement came into force , involving new expansion opportunities for European companies . 
For Mexico , because it will be able to diversify and introduce balance into its external trade , currently 80 % dependent on its NAFTA partners , and at the same time increase the volume of its exports to the European Union , with the consequent favourable impact this increase will have on the Mexican economy . 
Of course , during the transition period , and until all products have been fully liberalised , the agreement will be more beneficial to Mexico than the European Union , but this asymmetry also takes account of the levels of development and competitiveness of the European economy as compared with Mexico ' s . 
All the same , in spite of this asymmetry , Community producers will clearly be in a much better position to compete in the Mexican market than they have been up to now . 
For all these reasons , ladies and gentlemen , and by a very large majority , the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy recommends a vote in favour of the Council Decision on the result of negotiations whose benefits we must monitor to make sure they genuinely contribute to promoting a more democratic political system and respect for human rights and social justice . 
Mr President , I should like to start by thanking Mrs Ferrer for her excellent report . 
She has gone to a great deal of trouble and has used her report to set out the problems and the advantages and disadvantages of this project with Mexico . 
This is a trade agreement which falls within the competence of the EU and , as you rightly say , we only have the option of saying yes or no . 
We cannot renegotiate the agreement . 
All in all , our Group will vote in favour of this trade agreement , which we welcome . 
For the rest , I should like to say to Mr Folias , who worries about the problem of footwear that , generally - speaking , trade relations between Europe and Mexico have always proven their worth in the past . 
We might have been able to dispense with the Lannoye report on chocolate yesterday had Mexico not given us cocoa in the past . 
In fact , chocolate -  " chocolatl "  - is a Mexican word . 
We can therefore use past experience to help develop future relations with Mexico . 
The advantage to Mexico is obvious . 
This agreement will enable Mexico to redress the imbalance of its one - way dependence on the USA to a certain extent . 
I should like to remind the House that 85 % of Mexico ' s exports go north and only 5 % come to Europe . 
Mexico stands to gain here by achieving a better trade equilibrium . 
Mexico ' s automobile industry , which is partly of European origin , certainly also stands to gain from the possibility of exporting vehicles to Europe . 
We too stand to gain , as does European industry , be it on the Mexican market or by exporting to the USA via the Mexican market . 
As far as trade is concerned , there are advantages all round . 
I should like to go briefly into , or at least touch on , two problems . 
The first are social problems ; in other words , Mexico will certainly have to review its social policy because trade policies alone will not solve social problems . 
When free trade increases , there are also losers . 
Poverty in Mexico has risen rather than fallen . 
Social policy is therefore an important area for Mexico and we should build this into the dialogue with Mexico . 
The second is scientific and technical cooperation . 
I think that there is potential here which can be exploited between Europe and Mexico . 
Mr President , Commissioner , the Economic Partnership , Political Coordination and Cooperation Agreement signed with Mexico in December 1997 is back in this House for analysis of the trade measures negotiated in the context of the interim agreement . 
A few weeks ago I visited Mexico for a number of reasons , one of which was to find out what Mexicans think of the new framework for relations between their country and the European Union , announced with great fanfare in most of the media . 
After analysing what I saw , read and heard during my stay in the Republic of the United Mexican States , I came to the same conclusion as Mrs Ferrer , author of the report we are debating today , and I congratulate her publicly . This is the best agreement the European Union has yet signed to promote trade and investment and it will benefit both parties . 
There have been certain changes in Mexico recently , since the announcement and approval of the agreement , largely in a positive direction . 
I therefore support the rapporteur ' s conclusions although I am concerned about the impact of tariff liberalisation for cut flowers as this could have negative repercussions on certain European regions specialising in this type of agriculture , such as the outermost regions . 
Coming as I do from the Canary Islands , a region located to the north - east of the continent of Africa , with my political soul divided between Europe and America , I am delighted to witness this debate on Mrs Ferrer ' s report . The opinion Parliament is expressing on the association agreement is not just about its trading aspects , but also about its political implications as we experience the extraordinary scenario of globalisation . 
In my opinion , the implementation of this agreement will undoubtedly take the European Union and Mexico down a road which offers hope of improving the income levels and quality of life of the communities involved at a time and under circumstances which , despite the distances , evoke the legendary meeting between Suchil and Quetzalcoatl , immortalised in Don Salvador de Madariaga ' s " El Corazón de Piedra Verde "  . 
Nevertheless , when asked to vote for this report , we have some constructive points to make . First , the Community services and departments responsible need to be provided with more human resources to make trade actions more efficient ; and secondly , financial instruments should be made available to companies implementing the various trading aspects of the intended Euro - Mexican partnership , in the old ECIPs , for instance , which brought such good results for Mexico . 
If that does not happen , there is a risk that this very significant agreement will not be worth the paper it is written on . 
Mr President , this is the third debate on the EU - Mexico agreement and , given that it is the most comprehensive agreement which the European Union has ever concluded with a third country , the principles that mark the sort of cooperation which will be viable in the future should not be thrown to the wind . 
Both we and the people of Mexico set great store by this agreement . 
They see it as a chance to correct their one - way dependence on NAFTA . 
They believe that , in the EU , they have found a partner which stands for democracy , human rights and social and ecological development . 
Today we have analysed the contract and found that the agreement with the EU not only creates the same sort of relationship as with NAFTA , but that , in parts , it is even worse . 
Like the rightly failed MAI , freedom of investment , reproduced bilaterally , does nothing to foster a democratically - controlled economy geared to local development . 
Placing no limit on opening public procurement merely allows large suppliers to swallow up small suppliers all over the world . 
Provisions such as domestic treatment and bans on conditions cut companies which , for example , prefer to employ women or engage in environmentally sound production , out of the running . 
The EU has kept derogations open for itself here . 
Mexico has none ! 
Here is another shortcoming in comparison with NAFTA : the latter has an agreement on employees ' rights with a sanction mechanism , while the EU agreement has not even heard of the Social Pact of the United Nations . 
However , the opposite applies to trade disputes , for which a dispute settlement mechanism is provided together with the possibility of sanctions . 
We know from the WTO that environmental laws are regularly sidelined as the result of such disputes . 
 " A free trade agreement at the cost of the Mexicans "  . 
It was under this banner that the Mexican civil society called a few days ago for the Senate to improve the agreement and not to rush into signing it . 
Some points even contradict the Mexican constitution . 
 " We are not ' globalphobes ' they write at the end ,  " but we want globalisation which benefits mankind and a fair world order without social exclusion "  . 
We here in the European Parliament do not oppose an agreement with Mexico . 
On the contrary ! 
We are unable , however , to vote in favour of this agreement for the reasons stated and must continue to fight for better agreements in the future . 
One last word : we need a critical voice here in Parliament which continues to support the rightful concerns and demands of Mexican society . 
I would like to thank the rapporteur , Mrs Ferrer , for the recommendation on the implementation of certain articles of the EC - Mexico Interim Agreement on trade . 
The report is thorough , but I am afraid that I do not agree with the choices and recommendations it makes , although we do welcome some of the criticisms mentioned . 
However , these criticisms are decisive , and have led us to oppose the motion . 
I refer , for example , to the insufficient democratic transparency displayed leading up to the agreement , and we , along with all the other Members I imagine , have received a great deal of criticism on this point from both Mexican and European civil organisations , as Mr Kreissl - Dörfler said . 
We are particularly concerned by the fact that the rapporteur is satisfied with the progress made by Mexico in the area of human rights and democracy since the application of the global agreement . 
We now have conflicting evidence revealing an increase in violations of human rights , supplied not only by civil society but also by UN representatives and officials , by Mary Robinson herself , by the Inter - American Commission on Human Rights and by many other sources . 
The most serious violations include the systematic use of torture , illegal arrests , disappearances , executions by paramilitary death squads , the arrest of trade unionists , bans on strikes and allegations of enforced sterilisation in the State of Guererro . 
At the same time , the Saint Andrés agreements and the rights of the indigenous peasants are not being observed . 
All this is common knowledge and I need say no more . 
We believe , along with the German and Belgian Governments , that we should enforce observance of Article 1 of the Treaty , which contains the fundamental principle , and adopt instruments and set in place practical controls to ensure its implementation . 
There are many other aspects of this agreement which , we feel , require correction : I will give just one example - it reveals a European Union economic policy which does not take into consideration the social and economic situation in Mexico or its human development . 
The EU - Mexico Agreement could have negative implications if it does not take into account the need for balanced development , and not uncontrolled liberalisation , which could lead to greater poverty and inequality . 
Mr President , we regard the title of the agreement which is the subject of Mrs Ferrer ' s report as at best incomplete , at worst dissembling . 
It would in fact be more accurate to refer to a European Union - NAFTA agreement rather than an agreement associating the European Union with Mexico only . For this agreement , which the rapporteur herself describes as the most important one the European Union has ever signed with a third country , will not only affect our relations with Mexico but will also have implications for our relations with the North and Central American countries as a whole . 
The Ferrer report , following what is clearly now the fashion in this Parliament , sets itself the objective of helping to create a new framework that will enable European enterprises to compete on equal terms with the United States and Canada . 
That is a totally unrealistic objective for the near future and it is quite obvious for whose benefit the measures advocated in the text are designed . 
Indeed , it must be quite clear to everyone that the decline in European exports to Mexico is the result of the NAFTA agreement , which turns the entire area into a single free trade area . 
Does anyone seriously think , for example , that whatever the details of the system we set up , European textiles and cars , which are currently taxed at 35 % and 23 % , will soon be able to compete on equal terms with American exports of the same products , which are taxed at 1 . 8 % ? 
Under these conditions , how can anyone justify the fact that the respective markets will be liberalised at different rates , to the detriment of the Europeans ? 
Finally , there is a real fear that this will have an immediate and tangible impact on employment in Europe in the sectors opened to Mexican products , especially in already vulnerable sectors - such as textiles , to name but one . These sectors do not need to face further competition , in return for opening up to markets blocked by the Americans . 
Moreover , the supposedly reassuring formulation of the rules on protecting designations of origin , and more generally on intellectual property , are more likely to have the opposite effect ; their vagueness and wording seem more of a threat than a guarantee . 
Mr President , the conclusion of trade negotiations between the European Union and Mexico , considered from a positive perspective , could mean a new and durable framework for the institutionalisation of political dialogue and cooperation , provided that this trade pact works to the benefit of both sides . 
Unfortunately , the experience of NAFTA shows us that this target was not achieved automatically , because there is evidence that free trade has had an adverse effect on the lives of many people , exacerbated environmental damage , and marginalised wide sections of the Mexican population - all the more so as Mexican human rights NGOs have also reported a deterioration in the human rights situation since the interim agreement came into force in 1998 . 
So , all in all , the on - going agreement has not allowed Mexico to protect vulnerable labour , intensive sectors and minimal environmental standards . 
In the light of this we cannot be optimistic , because the procedure followed in the recent negotiations , without effective control either in this House or in the Mexican Senate , provides ample evidence that the agreement lacks those mechanisms absolutely necessary to ensure that the damage currently being done will not be repeated again in the future . 
Mr President , Commissioner , we are about to vote on one more step down a new road , begun in mid - 1995 , when , like anything new , it met with quite a lot of criticism and quite a lot of reluctance . 
Fortunately , that criticism and reluctance is now a thing of the past ; unfortunately , however , we still hear some reservations , like those voiced in Parliament just now . 
I think we need to realise that what we are doing is actually forestalling the fears expressed here , with an agreement which , in this case , is purely about trade . 
So we are forestalling these fears about Europe losing ground in Mexico against the exporting power of the United States . 
What is more , this agreement means we are also strengthening the country ' s democratisation process . 
As a result of that 500 year - old meeting of civilisations , Mexico is a country culturally and politically bound to Europe . 
But politically and geo - politically , the fundamental weight has essentially lain with the United States , its powerful neighbour to the North . 
And until these agreements start to bite , the hegemony of the United States in terms of economics , trade and investment will remain virtually absolute . 
But Mexico has also made great progress on human rights . 
It has been granted permanent observer status at the OECD and in 1999 it reformed its constitution to grant autonomy to its National Commission on Human Rights
So , for both economic and political reasons , we urge approval of this agreement . 
Mr President , the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance does not have a common position on this issue . 
The latter part of the group , representing , as you know , groups which regard themselves as defenders of nations and regions internal to the European Member States , take a different view and , of course , members of the group are free to adopt different positions . 
Obviously we share a basic concern about everything relating to human rights and sustainable development , especially in a context which leaves no room for social exclusion . 
However , many of us feel we cannot realistically and sincerely oppose an agreement like the one before us today , primarily because we believe it will create objective conditions for further development and greater democracy and because , in addition , this agreement includes a suspension clause for non - respect of human rights . 
I also think measures can be introduced to monitor its effects at all levels , not just on tariff changes and so on . 
I am more worried about the points Mr Sánchez García made : for example , that the agreement we are signing cannot be implemented because there are insufficient resources and services ; that it will have perverse effects because we have not provided financial instruments for companies . 
So let us do all that and let us be vigilant about preventing what we want to prevent : the continued violation of human rights . 
Mr President , first I want to congratulate Mrs Ferrer on her excellent report , but despite that I also have to record that , regrettably , we cannot vote for it this time . 
Our decision has nothing to do with her work , it relates to the situation in Mexico . 
Three weeks ago I met with President Zedillo in Madrid and expressed our concern about the news we were receiving on violations of human rights in Mexico , the situation at the university and the situation in the indigenous towns of Chiapas and other localities . 
Mr Zedillo promised to let me have full details to prove to me that our concern was groundless . 
The days have gone by and still the information from Mr Zedillo has not come . 
Meanwhile , information is reaching us from many sources indicating that serious human rights violations are continuing in many places , increasing our concern . 
We quite understand that the economic content of the agreement is intended to bring about improvements , but we also recognise that we have not been able to achieve our aim of shifting the tremendous weight of North American influence that bears down on Mexico and other Latin American countries like a jackboot . 
Last time , we consulted with the parties on the left in Mexico on how to vote and we decided to abstain . 
This time we cannot even abstain , because the Mexican Government needs to be sent a signal - in friendship and solidarity - that it must be serious about respecting human rights , complying with the San Andrés undertakings and restoring democratic normality , as laid down in our democracy clause . 
Mr President , I will not discuss the content of this agreement since many speakers , including the rapporteur , have already covered it . 
I just want to highlight the political significance of the signing of this free trade agreement between the European Union and Mexico . 
First , from the strategic and political angles , it is important for the European Union to build up its relationship with a country that is so important in that part of the world and which , above all , is making progress in terms of respect for the values of human rights . 
Mexico ' s membership of the OECD was just mentioned , and its observer status at the Council of Europe should also be remembered . 
Nor should we forget the opportunities represented by this market of 100 million people . 
But obviously this political symbolism can in no way allay our concern about environmental issues , social issues and above all human rights issues , and many speakers have already referred to them here today . 
What we do know is that our concern must make us more rigorous in our relations with Mexico . 
That is just what we will be in ten days ' time . 
The European Parliament ' s delegation for relations with the countries of Central America and Mexico will be visiting that country . 
We are not going just for institutional dialogue between partners , between the Congress and the European Parliament . 
We are going to talk to non - governmental organisations . 
We are also going to Chiapas to talk to the indigenous people and representatives of local society . 
That is how rigorous we believe we need to be but it will not detract from our support for approval of this agreement . 
Overall , I feel that we can but support this agreement , for the reasons expressed by Messrs Westendorp y Cabeza and Seguro , whose opinions I share . 
However , today ' s debate has revealed that it does have shortcomings , such as the failure to make an adequate connection between economic liberalisation and the guarantee of the respect of human and democratic rights , the rights of trade unions and rights in the area of child employment . The report also contains an alarming derogating clause regarding the origin of products , which will obviously penalise European produce , in particular in the textiles , clothing and footwear industries . 
Since this involves highly labour - intensive European manufacturing industries , it would be truly absurd if this penalisation were to benefit practices which run contrary to the principles of human rights or to benefit unacceptable working practices such as child employment or an absence of trade union protection . 
It really would be absurd if , to the detriment of our own footwear and clothing industries , we were to work to the advantage of companies and situations which violate those human rights that we have always vowed to protect . 
I therefore feel that the Council and the Commission should take great care when implementing this agreement , and continually monitor its application for as long as it is in force . 
I support the agreement in its entirety , for it certainly represents a step forward . 
However , I also call for scrutiny , care and prudence regarding this agreement for its entire duration . 
Mr President , first of all I want to thank Madam Ferrer for the report and Parliament for the very constructive input with regard to the results of the trade negotiations with Mexico . 
These results of the trade negotiations are based on the EU - Mexico agreement to which this Parliament gave the green light on 6 May last year . 
This agreement is based on human rights and democratic principles . 
It covers all our relations with Mexico , notably cooperation and political dialogue . 
The negotiating results are balanced , ambitious and offer a window of opportunity for both sides . 
All important areas are included , notably trade in goods , services , procurement , intellectual property rights , competition , capital movement , investment and dispute settlement . 
EC operators will be very rapidly able to compete on the Mexican market on an equal footing with industries elsewhere , notably the United States . 
As in all negotiations , compromises had to be found in certain areas but the results are a balanced package assuring market access while preserving specific sensitivities . 
Last , but not least , I would like to express the Commission ' s high appreciation of the very short time period of one month in which the Parliament will be delivering its opinion . 
It is very important because it will pave the way for organising a meeting of the EC - Mexico Joint Council on the margins of the Lisbon Council next week . 
This will allow for the rapid entry into force of the results which , as you recognise , are in both our and Mexico ' s interest . 
Thank you very much , Mr Liikanen . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place at 12 noon . 
Information society for All
The next item is the report ( A5 - 0067 / 2000 ) by Mrs Read , on behalf of the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy , on the communication from the Commission on a Commission initiative for the Special European Council of Lisbon , 23 and 24 March 2000 : Europe - An information society for all [ COM ( 1999 ) 687 - C5 - 0063 / 2000 - 2000 / 2034 ( COS ) ] . 
