Mr President , may I start by thanking the Commission for its timely , well - judged and well - forecasted document . 
This is , of course , timed to coincide with the summit in Lisbon next week , and Parliament has had to work extremely speedily , for which I thank so many colleagues who have helped with this and , of course , the secretariat . 
When I was a young child , a library was opened in a village where I was born and brought up ; when the head teacher of the village school opened the library , he said that there were over 4 000 books in the library , and I thought with all the wisdom of a six - year old child : well , that is all the books in the world . 
Now , I personally own over 4 000 books , and , although this is hardly a knowledge revolution in itself , it is some indication , on a personal level extrapolated to a political level , of the pace of change in how knowledge is accessed , distributed , applied and refined . 
We ought to put this into some sort of context , though , and remind ourselves that the majority of people in the world have never made and probably never will make even one phone call . 
The Commission proposals and Parliament ' s response give a clear acknowledgement that the market can and should be the motor for much of this change , but not in every case . 
The challenge is to work out when the European Union should let the market do the driving , and when we should intervene and regulate - when we should intervene , in whose interests and for how long . 
We should remember - and the Commission proposal and Parliament ' s response highlight the fact - that third - generation mobile telephones , on which so much of our future depends , are an area where clearly the European Union has an important lead , and that this lead is partly , though not wholly , explained by intervention . 
The adoption of the GSM standard has meant that the European Union has a tremendous advantage . 
Our report mentions matters relating to social protection and the social implications of this change , and I am indebted to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and particularly Mr Cercas , draftsman of the opinion from that committee - the only committee that has been able to complete an opinion in the short space of time available - for his hard work . 
If I can explain procedurally and very briefly , the Social Affairs Committee voted on Monday evening at the same time as the Committee on Industry , External Trade , Research and Energy and , with the agreement of the draftsman , I have taken over some of his proposals and put them down in my own political group ' s name . 
I hope that there will be support for those , because they go into a considerable amount of important detail . 
Other amendments are looking at matters relating to disability rights . 
I have consulted widely about the need to ensure that certain fundamental principles about the rights of disabled users and disabled people at work are incorporated into this report , and I hope into future legislation under the 1999 review of telecommunications legislation , at a sufficiently early stage . 
We have amendments about consumer protection - so important in the establishment of trust in e - commerce - on the future of taxation , on the implications for healthcare and for transport . 
Particularly important are going to be the employment consequences already seen and I tried hard to obtain a balance : not to be too alarmist because , of course , some of these changes will mean unemployment , but , on the other hand , to look at the opportunities for new sorts of work that the changes will bring . 
Whilst I was researching for these comments to make to you today , I looked for examples , because I think these illustrate so well to the citizens of the European Union how these developments will bring benefits to their lives . 
It is important , too , that we in Parliament and in the institutions of the European Union also apply modern methods , methods characterised by transparency and openness , in our own deliberations . 
I should like to use my final few seconds to draw to your attention three projects in my own area . 
One of these is in Rutland , the smallest county in England , where a virtual Rutnet was set up , bringing together people in rural , isolated communities for purposes of leisure , transport , employment and social life generally . 
Further north , the Nottingham rural community council have set up a similar project in an area of serious mining deprivation , and this is bringing enormous benefits to many of the people in that area . 
On a broader basis , M - net , the European East Midlands network helping small businesses and craft enterprises and linking in with universities and colleges , is also important . 
Finally , some comments , Mr President , on what the future holds . 
It is interesting to try to look into the future , and I should like to quote from the words of a famous Louis Armstrong song ,  ' What a wonderful world '  :  ' Babies are born , we watch them grow , they ' ll learn much more than I ' ll ever know '  . 
I think for all of us the future for our children and grandchildren is a future of great opportunity , though also of great uncertainty . 
It is praiseworthy that the Commission is looking to play a leading , pivotal role in this , and I commend the Commission proposals and my own report to you . 
Mr President , Commissioner Liikanen , ladies and gentlemen , before starting on my speech on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs , I want to express our very sincere and warm thanks to the rapporteur , Mrs Read . 
We have been working against the clock and we have been dealing with an excellent and supportive fellow Member , who has been very open to accepting all the points our committee wanted to raise in this important debate . 
Many thanks for your report and your skill , Mrs Read . 
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has welcomed the Commission ' s very important initiative , e - Europe , for the Special European Council to be held in Lisbon on 23 and 24 March , with support and optimism . 
We naturally applaud the Commission ' s aim of making the information society benefit all sectors and all regions but now , with the Commissioner here , we also have the opportunity to consider the citizens ' viewpoint and remind the Commission and the public that rhetoric in announcing objectives and expressing desires is not enough . 
We want these words transformed as firmly as possible into specific objectives and precise financial commitments , because that is the only way to get a real strategy covering every aspect of the information society . And the strategy will only be of use to the weakest groups and individuals , and those who are most at risk of exclusion from the new society , if there are concrete commitments . 
No doubt the Commission has the noblest intentions , but , looked at from the viewpoint of the workers and the least advantaged people , it still has not answered the questions this Parliament has raised in many documents , for example , the report on the Green Paper entitled " Living and Working in the Information Society : People First "  . 
We still do not have much idea of who is going to finance the massive programme to teach basic digital literacy which Europe needs to close the gap with the United States . 
We do not have much idea of how the responsibilities can be divided between governments and Commission , or what role trade unions and civil society can play . 
So we want supplementary analyses taken into account , we want firmer commitments , we want a specific point about strengthening employment and social cohesion in the information society - because there is nothing about that in the Commission ' s communication - and we want a strategy with guidelines , recommendations and indicators . 
We want adults mentioned , not just young people , we want disadvantaged groups mentioned and we want you to remember equality of opportunity too . The new society must not exacerbate inequality between men and women . 
Commissioner , there are great opportunities here , but they must reach all the people . 
And we want the European social model to be defended . 
So we are asking for a step forward , with more specific commitments and far more adequate political and financial efforts . 
Mr President , Commissioner Liikanen , the e - Europe initiative by the European Commission is to be welcomed in principle . 
We all agree that new technologies will lead to extensive change , not only in our business life but in all aspects of our social life . 
It is also true that the evolution from industrial society to information society cannot be halted and that it therefore makes political sense to prepare Europe for the information society as best we can . 
I therefore expressly welcome the statement in the e - Europe initiative that its prime objective is to accelerate the positive transformation to the information society in the European Union and gear the transformation towards social and regional integration . 
The European Commission sets out ten measures in its communication on the e - Europe initiative , which should level the playing field in the run up to the information society in Europe . 
As welcome as the individual measures are , they need to be structured as a whole and clear priorities need to be set for our policy . 
This includes clearly differentiating which tasks the European Union can and must take care of itself and which tasks come within the jurisdiction of the individual Member States , taking account of the fact that some Member States and regions have been promoting the new technologies and fostering their acceptance by their citizens for years now . 
In this respect , the summit in Lisbon should table recommendations to the individual states , without imposing comprehensive obligations or heavy financial burdens . 
What must the European Union do within the framework of the e - Europe initiative ? 
In my opinion , the following priorities should be taken care of by the Union and should have been addressed as core points in Mrs Read ' s report , for which I should like , at this point , to thank her . 
First : we must create an open , modern , high - performance multimedia infrastructure . 
The policy objective must be to ensure that Europe has a modern , high - performance infrastructure which allows valuable quality telecommunications services to be supplied and demanded from the telephone via the PC and television . 
This includes cheaper Internet access for all the citizens of Europe , which means fostering even more competition in local networks , for example by unbundling customer access . 
It also means that all platforms must be made accessible to service providers at competitive prices ; this might include making television cables available . 
It also means that the policy regarding frequencies in Europe will need to be reviewed and we will need to take a more strategic approach based on economic principles , as you have suggested , Commissioner . 
But , in so doing , we must not , of course , forget commercial applications which are generally provided in the public interest , such as public service radio . 
On the contrary , this must be taken into account when frequencies are being allocated so that it can fulfil its purpose as an opinion - forming institution which provides a platform for a variety of opinions . 
Secondly : we must quickly create a legal framework for electronic commerce . 
This means that we must deal swiftly with legislative proposals pending , such as the e - commerce directive or the directive amending copyright protection . 
However , caution is required in the legislative area in that we must not over - regulate ; in other words , the first question with future legislative proposals should always be , do we actually need this ? 
Thirdly : we need an e - Europe test bench for European initiatives . 
I have already referred to the fact that the changes in information technology and the new media affect all areas of life . 
Consequently , it is advisable to set all initiatives at European level on the e - Europe test bench . In other words . . . 
 ( The President cut the speaker off ) Mr President , I apologise . 
Please be so kind as to allow me to finish my sentence . 
I have inadvertently run over time , but allow me to use my closing sentence to stress once again that I welcome the e - Europe initiative and to say that the suggestions which I had made would have been taken into account in my intervention . 
Mr President , congratulations are in order today of course to Mrs Read on her excellent report and to Commissioner Liikanen . 
This is a positive debate , very positive for Europe , and widespread interest has been shown , as evidenced by the large number of amendments . 
Let me pick out the points that we think are most important : infrastructure , legal certainty - people must know where they are - and the skills offensive , which ought , please , to be targeted not simply at our schoolchildren and students but at groups which have been neglected , such as women and older people , who represent an enormous source of skill if it were to be exploited . 
It is a disgrace that large countries in the past have not foreseen the need to train , and countries like Germany and the United Kingdom should not be having to bring in workers from elsewhere . 
I know that we will have a very good advertising and information campaign , and that we will capture the imagination of the citizens of Europe . 
We must not forget people with disabilities . 
There is also the fact that the documentation is not available to partially sighted people , and that is an oversight which could be put right in future . 
We must prevent divisions , divisions between the regions of Europe , between the households of Europe and between the individuals of Europe . 
Business - to - business communications are doing well but we must enhance communications between business and consumers in the European Union , where we lag behind the United States . 
Of course , to do that we have to ensure that people - customers - are convinced of privacy and security , and your measures will help to bring about that confidence . 
Business - to - consumer communications are particularly important for the elderly , the housebound and for those with family responsibilities who are finding it difficult to juggle work and career , overwhelmingly women . 
There are ethical issues which we must give regard to , but I am very optimistic , and I think that Mrs Read will continue her work alongside you , and we will find in this House many missionaries for the ' e - Europe ' communication . 
Mr President , Commissioner , the present initiative is important for the purpose of making decision makers in general more aware of developments , but also because levels of development differ very greatly from one European country to another . 
We can also see this from the follow - up document prepared by the Commission . 
The initiative is important if we are to stop having to say that the United States is the overall leader within this developing field . 
According to the " 2000 IDC / World Times Information Society Index "  , published in February , Sweden has overtaken the United States as the leading information economy . 
The United States occupies second place . Finland , Norway and Denmark follow , in that order . 
People may hold different views as to the value of this type of investigation , but I think it is important to emphasise that the US model is not the only one which leads to success in the IT society , something which far too many people have said in this House . 
Scandinavia is acquitting itself well with its social infrastructure and also , perhaps , with its pensions systems . 
We ought to bear this in mind , something I am convinced the Commission has done . 
We should also remember that the EU countries are very different from one another and that developments are very rapid . 
This must be reflected in the action plan . 
It is also important that the countries which are forging ahead most quickly should not be checked in their development . 
It is important that we should clarify what is being done at EU level and what is being done with EU resources and that we should be prepared to make changes to regional policy and redirect some resources for research in ways that benefit " e - Europe "  . 
In view of countries ' different levels of development in the IT sphere , I am also sceptical about information plans and campaigns at EU level .  " e - Europe " means more than just " e - commerce "  . 
The Directive on electronic commerce deals for the most part with things other than trading on the part of consumers . 
I should like to appeal to the Commission to pay attention to the question which is being discussed in an adjoining room with Federal Trade Commissioner Thompson : that of how we are to increase consumer confidence . 
The consumer has to be king when it comes to electronic commerce . Otherwise , it will not properly take off . 
When alternative ways of solving disputes are discussed , we ought to collaborate globally with the United States . Nonetheless , we should also support the OECD in its work . 
The issues of broadband communications and of good infrastructure are on the agenda in the majority of countries . 
There is a need for diversity , but now more standards are being sought for Digital Subscriber Lines with the help of which it will be possible to upgrade the network . 
It is widely maintained that telephone companies are not making use of the available technology because standards are lacking . 
Smart cards , encryption , mobile phones and " e - Europe " constitute our strength . 
We shall persist with developments in these areas but , when it comes to standards , we need to pursue further development . 
It is not we politicians who should decide on these standards . Instead , we should allow industry to reach an agreement concerning standards where there is a demand for these . 
Our task is to legislate more quickly and to make for new patterns of legislation where possible . 
I am glad that this point is made in the report . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , Commissioner , rapporteur , allow me to thank you for the open debate and , of course , the report . 
I should like to turn my attention first to the policy approach of the e - Europe initiative and to the approach taken by the Read report . 
The Internet , e - mail and mobile telephones will apparently do away with unemployment . 
But the reality of the matter is somewhat different . 
The IT boom is confronted by mergers and redundancies . 
History teaches us that this approach has failed . 
Industrialisation , atomic energy and biotechnology have not brought freedom and prosperity for all . 
Initiatives and reports are informed by the concept that the playing field should be levelled for the youngest and best . 
Unfortunately , this concept totally ignores the fact that this group already represents the winners , while the general mass goes away empty - handed . 
What we need to do is to allow everyone to profit from technical innovation , irrespective of how old or how rich they are or in which region they live . 
We should hold our principle of equal opportunity up to the light of truth . 
A universal service points the right way , but the idea should not be implemented by providers which censor the Internet by using technical devices to deny their customers access to parts of the Net . 
The Commission ' s proposal aims to create equality through market liberalisation . 
That alone is nonsensical enough because liberalisation always starts from the premise that the strong will become stronger , while the state should only give the weak minimum support . 
In the case of information technology , however , we start with a totally different set of coordinates . 
For example , there are numerous initiatives to promote the Internet and computers in schools . 
But if no account is taken of the fact that each class contains at least one pupil who knows more than the teacher , then the initiative cannot but fail . 
The fact that strong anti - American arguments had to be used at numerous points of the Read report as an excuse for the liberalisation policy again illustrates the extent to which the interests of private industry have dictated the text . 
That brings me to my next controversial point : civil rights . 
What we in fact need is a concept for universal data protection . 
Instead , the Commission and parts of the European Parliament visualise a smart card on which all your data would be stored . 
Your medical health fund would know that you are homosexual and your employer would know all about your previous and expected future illnesses and your forefathers . 
It means a step in the direction of see - through man and yet more state interference in our private lives . 
It is being used to deliberately plan and implement a further massive restriction of fundamental rights at European level . 
It is being sold as an innovative policy at the same time as Parliament is arguing with other institutions for a Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
How can these two things be reconciled ? 
In the light of " echelon "  , I am calling for a rethink of this matter . 
Data protection and encoding are what we need . 
For the rest , the citizens must control the state , not the other way around . 
Mr President , in the original paper in English , the Commission uses the words ' information society ' and not ' knowledge society '  . 
These are two different things . 
Information is only a raw material of knowledge . Information is chaos , while knowledge is order : order out of chaos . 
The information society is the chaos society . 
The knowledge society is more than that , and it may also be a society of social order , cultural diversity and human solidarity . 
The information society has to date made its presence felt in the form of price quotations on a chaotic stock market . 
The prices of shares in technology have risen in a such a way which cannot be justified economically . 
Neither has the money often gone into new investment for business but to the owners , who have become millionaires and billionaires . 
In that way the information society emerges as a bubble economy , a symbol of social inequality and imbalance . 
The information society has been a matter of millionaires causing a social revolution : they have innovatively destroyed the old structures of society . 
Their revolution has been to sell computers and software to everyone . 
The rest of us should start a counter - revolution . 
We should set our aims higher than the Commission has done . 
We have to demand a knowledge society for all rather than the chaotic information society we are getting . 
It cannot just be a question of whether everyone has a mobile phone , how e - mail gets sent and what to buy over the Internet . 
At its best the knowledge society can be a social dimension of the new capitalism . 
The information society for all is too undemanding , too commercial and too culturally restricted a goal . 
We should want a knowledge society for all : that is democracy . 
Mr President ,  ' the best is the enemy of the good '  , as they say in France , and I do fear Mrs Read ' s report is a striking illustration of that saying . 
Indeed no one will deny that means of communication , and in particular the Internet , are most important to the future development of our societies , or that the EU Member States are currently trailing behind the United States in this respect , or that we need to legislate to control the potentially anarchic development of these means in order to limit the excesses to which they can give rise and ensure that they are as successful as possible for our people . 
Yet I fear that the catalogue of good intentions before us today may , in fact , make it more difficult to achieve the objective we are seeking . 
Rather than moving ahead one step at a time and setting the Member States a concrete and quantifiable short or medium - term objective , Parliament is sending out a confused and confusing signal , largely , it is true , because of the rather bizarre committee work . 
We would have liked to see more precise details about the specific nature of the European approach to this subject and , in particular , on how the Commission proposes to help the Member States to check the headlong race towards standardisation , an exact blueprint of the American model , which is bound to encourage the development of these tools on the basis of purely technical and commercial considerations . 
The educational and social concerns set out in the report are , no doubt , laudable ones , but in the end they will have little impact given the immediate repercussions that the extension of this tool will have for the people of Europe . 
In what way is the Commission ' s document compatible with the existence of tax provisions in the field of commerce and employment specific to the various Member States ? 
How can we ensure respect for our concepts of the freedom of the individual and freedom of expression , which have not yet been harmonised at world level ? 
What guarantees are there for the security of our states in the context of the development of a technology operated chiefly by a big power which , while teaching the whole world the lessons of liberalism , never forgets to ensure that its own enterprises scrupulously respect its concept of the national interest ? 
It is rather surprising , Mrs Ferrer , to read in paragraph 55 of your report that this Parliament expressly supports . . . 
 ( The President cut the speaker off ) 
Mr President , Commissioner , it is a very positive sign that Lisbon will see focused discussion on the development of the information society in Europe . 
The ' new economy ' is here to stay , in Europe too . 
The European response to new challenges and exploiting opportunities has , however , been a long time coming . 
For that reason , the e - Europe initiative is in a more crucially important position than ever before with regard to Union competitiveness and , consequently , from the point of view of our citizens also . 
The proposals for reform in the initiative are ambitious , but do not even necessarily go far enough . 
The goals are too modest , especially for my home country of Finland , where , in many respects , we are ahead of our European partners in networking . 
The initiative should also be supplemented by the future challenges facing those countries with a more advanced information society . 
Commissioner , I appreciate the amount of work that you , to your credit , have carried out regarding these issues relating to the information society . 
We Members of the European Parliament cannot stand by either , while Europe continually lags behind its global competitors in the world of the Internet . 
The clear lead Europe enjoys in the world of wireless communications is not enough for us to stop caring about the future of the European information society and about whether we really can keep up with the competition . 
Being in a key position when creating the information society encourages real competition in telecommunications networks . 
Competition cuts costs , and we have to bring down these very costs of communications , so that consumers and SMEs can derive full benefit from the electronic revolution . 
Apart from reduced costs , the growth in electronic commerce also means that questions of security should be able to be resolved to the satisfaction of consumers and that defects in legislation should be corrected . 
I think it is particularly important to take measures to increase venture capital projects for SMEs in the high technology sector . 
The EUR 20 billion currently being used in venture capital projects in Europe each year is only one quarter of what the United States spends over the same period . 
The amount is much too small . 
Fortunately , the Commission has shown initiative in this matter , however , and has focused attention on accelerating developments here . 
Speedy developments in the information society will drastically change our environment and our working and living conditions . 
As European legislators , we have before us an immense challenge , if we intend to keep legislation abreast of the times . 
The legislator does not always even have to interfere in developments : in certain matters industry and the players themselves may quickly resolve problems through cooperation . 
Examples would be the positive experience that was gained from the common standardisation of second generation mobile phone systems and which is directly visible now in the strengthened competitive position with regard to third generation output . 
Control of the new operational environment will also require increased technical and pedagogic facilities and resources in training schemes . 
Consequently , there will have to be more focus on the training of teaching staff in European educational and training programmes . 
Finally I would like to say that I support the introduction of benchmarking with regard to the development of the information society . 
With regard to the concrete proposals contained in the e - Europe communiqué , I can only wonder why the Council has not discussed them before , so as to ensure commitment on the part of Member States . 
Mr President , with regard to the Commission ' s communication on the information society , I feel that it is particularly important to underscore the emphasis placed on the need to provide all European citizens with access to new technologies . 
This is more than an economic challenge : it is a process of profound cultural change which must filter down to every family , every school , every company and every public authority . 
In order to achieve this objective , although , on the one hand , we do need to promote the spread of new technologies , on the other , it is essential to implement the necessary measures and reinforce the confidence of consumers in the major opportunities presented by e - commerce . 
There is a genuine need for this , given the suspicion with which our fellow citizens approach these new tools . 
A high level of protection is essential for the effective spread of the use of new technologies to the daily lives of millions of people , and clear rules will have to be defined if European citizens are to be able to take full advantage of the benefits . 
In this regard , I had submitted a series of amendments for the attention of the Committee on Industry intended precisely to stress the importance of consumer protection in the project for disseminating new technologies put forward by the Prodi Commission . 
It was with regret that I learned that only some of these amendments had been included in Mrs Read ' s report . I am , however , in agreement with the main points of the report , and I do hope that this omission was due to the unfortunate circumstances which meant that my Committee , which deals with consumer protection , did not have time to produce an official opinion . 
I trust that during work on the action plan , following the Lisbon Summit , there will be more effective cooperation between the two Committees . 
Mr President , Commissioners , if every possible attempt is made - and rightly so - to establish ways of creating an information society for everyone , we should make just as great an effort to ensure that we do not end up recreating a dual society with IT literates on one side and IT illiterates on the other . 
Moreover , I set great store by protecting small and medium - sized businesses , with special emphasis on the small businesses . 
In this connection , it is important to ensure that guarantees are provided for advertising purposes . 
Indeed , due to a lack of a harmonised policy on commercial communication , obstacles could well surface which cannot be negotiated , particularly by small businesses . 
Far - reaching harmonisation concerning commercial communication is therefore urgently needed . 
In the last instance , I would also like to underline how important it is that at least the parties involved , i . e . the consumer and entrepreneur , must always be able to make prior arrangements regarding the applicable legal system . After all , if it is stipulated that consumers can take legal action within their own jurisdiction , then this situation will be untenable for small businesses , which will need legal assistance in 14 other Member States . 
Needless to say , small businesses cannot afford to make this kind of arrangement . 
Mr President , with the e - Europe initiative , the Commission is reminding us that Europe is lagging behind in the development of the information society . 
That means it is lagging behind the United States which , indeed , no one would deny . 
But having said that , we should evaluate the quality of this backwardness : economic , political and social . How do we measure it ? 
The Commission says it wants to launch a political initiative , so let us take it at its word . 
Yes , Europe is backward in terms of access to the information society as a tool , a tool of knowledge , a tool of creativity , a tool for exchanging information . 
Yes , it is backward in terms of the development of e - commerce made possible by the Internet . 
But are these two forms of backwardness the same ? 
Some might say ' no matter '  , we must strive for the wholesale development of the magnificent tool of digital information and that is an end in itself . 
That is the impression the Commission ' s initiative could give . 
But is it enough to set out a list of objectives , where the development of small enterprises is put on the same footing as the development of the public services , where electronic commerce vies with university education ? 
The question that has not been asked is about the content of the information that is supposed to circulate thanks to this digital tool . 
Will that content be standardised or will it reflect the cultural and linguistic diversity of Europe ? 
Will it be a social content or purely market - related ? 
Even now , the information society is creating social networks , giving rise to new cultural experiences , producing sites for political debate and exchanges of view . 
We need to evaluate them properly . 
The Commission refers to Europe ' s backwardness and the need to make up for it . 
Between considerations of backwardness and urgency , we must not confine ourselves to speeding up this process but must instead consider the democratic and political conditions under which it takes place . 
Technological progress is an all - too familiar slogan . 
In fact , the transformation we are witnessing is reminiscent of what happened with the invention of printing . 
We need to reflect very seriously about the challenges and changes it is bringing about . 
If the objectives are to strengthen employment and improve democratic access , as so clearly elucidated in Mrs Read ' s report , it would be a pity to evaluate them solely in terms of the market and of economic development . 
Mr President , it is difficult to summarise in three minutes the thoughts and feelings which naturally present themselves when one is to comment on such a broadly based and interesting initiative such as that which Mr Liikanen has prepared . 
The new technologies which we are debating here have , for the most part , radically altered the bases of production , service , distribution , trade , research , use of information etc . in our societies . 
Productivity is increasing , as is the quality of various products . Moreover , one of the reasons why we have relatively high growth in the world economy and , at the same time , low inflation lies precisely in these new technologies . 
I think we are all fascinated by all the new products and applications which are being made available . 
It is nonetheless important that , in our capacity as politicians , we should pay attention to the prior conditions which are being created for using these new technologies to help solve urgent problems for society with which the market economy will not automatically concern itself . 
One such example is , of course , the area of education . 
We live at a time when education is becoming ever more important as a factor in production . 
One aspect to which little attention is paid in this area is that knowledge , unlike other production factors ( such as capital , minerals , and agricultural and other land ) , is not a scarce resource . 
Knowledge has a clear tendency to increase or to expand when it is used . 
It opens the door to incredibly exciting developments where democracy and justice are concerned . 
We are all born with the potential to learn and acquire knowledge . This cannot , however , occur without good prior conditions for education and learning . 
That is why the proposal in this report , according to which resources for education and learning would be made available , is so important . 
It is not , however , just a question of technical equipment . It is also a question of developing new teaching methods and distance learning . 
This is important in our own part of the world but is also , of course , especially important in poor countries . 
I hope that the experience which will be gained by the EU in this area will also be used as part of our collaborative work on development . I would urge Mr Liikanen to have a detailed discussion with Mr Nielson on that issue . 
Another area which is just as important is that of the opportunities for using the new technologies to make the use of energy and materials more efficient . 
Commendably , in my view , the present programme refers to the area of transport . 
Do not forget , however , that it is also possible , to a significant degree , to achieve an actual physical reduction in transport needs , which is something we should be trying to come to grips with . 
Finally , where e - commerce is concerned , it is extremely important that a framework should be created which ensures that consumers can feel secure in engaging in this form of trade , that commerce within the EU is facilitated and that due attention is paid to the tax issue and to the risks concerning integrity . 
We are only at the beginning of an important discussion , and I look forward to further stimulating dialogue . 
Thank you , Mr Liikanen and Mrs Read , for an interesting report . 
