The White Paper also contains very important proposals in respect of controls . 
This is a hugely important component of the system of checks and balances to ensure that Member States and operators are complying with Community legislation . 
I want to see a genuine internal market operating in the control arena . 
In this context we are also proposing to strengthen significantly the control function carried out by the food and veterinary office located in Dublin . 
This revised Community framework would have three core elements : operational criteria set up at Community level , Community control guidelines , and enhanced administrative cooperation in the development and operation of control . 
As part of our proposals in this area - which I expect to bring forward at the end of this year - I will be examining whether additional powers in addition to infringement procedures need to be given to the Commission . These could include withholding Community financial support or recouping funding already committed to a Member State . 
These proposals must be seen as part of our mission to have the highest food safety standards in the world , boost consumer confidence and increase markets for farmers and producers in the Union . 
In addition to the proposals for a new European food authority and an enhanced control system at Community - level , the White Paper proposes an action plan with a wide range of measures to improve and bring coherence to the Community ' s legislation , covering all aspects of food products from farm to table . 
It sets out over 80 separate actions that are envisaged over the period ahead and intends to close identified loopholes in current legislation . 
The new legal framework will cover animal feed , animal health and welfare , hygiene , contaminants and residues , novel food , additives , flavourings , packaging and irradiation . 
It will include a proposal on general food law which will embody the principles of food safety such as responsibility of feed manufacturers , farmers and food operators , traceability of feed , food and ingredients , proper risk analysis through , for instance , risk assessment - that is , scientific advice and information analysis - risk management - that is , regulation and control - risk communication , and application of the precautionary principle if and when appropriate . 
As regards the precautionary principle , I might add that the Commission is currently finalising a communication which I expect to be adopted very soon . 
I look forward to having a useful exchange of views this afternoon with the Members of Parliament who would clearly have preferred to do this last week if there had been an appropriate parliamentary forum available . 
However , having regard to my contacts with the presidents of the relevant committees , I recognise that this was not feasible . 
But I know too that we will have many further opportunities in the coming months to consider the White Paper ' s proposals on the authority . 
We now have a number of months to have the necessary debate on the Commission ' s ideas on the White Paper on the establishment of a European food authority . 
Parliament will have a key part to play in this debate . Parliament played a crucial role in Europe ' s response to the BSE crisis . 
It has especially active since then in bringing citizens ' concerns about food safety issues to the fore . 
I expect that Parliament ' s contribution to the debate on the authority can be as incisive and constructive . 
While we have a number of months to the end of April to debate the issue and garner our views , I recognise fully that this is also a very tight timeframe . 
I would therefore ask Parliament to make appropriate arrangements to ensure that its views can be formulated as quickly as possible . 
It is essential that the Commission should have the benefit of Parliament ' s contribution to the shaping of what would be a key component of raising consumer health protection to a new plane and thereby restoring consumer confidence in the European Union ' s food safety regime . 
The European food authority will be a key ingredient in the EU ' s food safety regime in the years ahead . 
It is essential that we get the mix right . 
Mr President , I thank the Commissioner for his statement . 
I would like to welcome the division of labour that you have made and that food management will remain the responsibility of the European institutions , including the Commission and Parliament . 
That is very much the right approach . 
But there is one word that I have not heard you mention here tonight . I hope that we can thrash this out . 
We need a body of food law , as you have said , and we need to agree this together . 
It is very important that we include liability in that process . 
That is the one word I am talking about . 
The problem so far is that taxpayers paid when something went wrong . 
That cannot continue . 
When we have a crisis we have to clearly identify in advance that if there is a problem , those responsible are liable . 
Mr President , it is a very worthwhile White Paper and you will not hear a word from me on the food safety authority . 
My questions relate to the positive list for animal feed . 
You are unclear about this in your White Paper . 
What is your schedule , how long will it take you to produce a positive list ? 
When will the same requirements be applied to animal feed and the production thereof as apply to the production of food and the monitoring thereof ? 
The final part of my question is as follows : when will BSE testing be binding in all Member States ? 
That is another point , i . e . the question of obligation , which you were somewhat unclear on in your White Paper . 
Thank you , Commissioner , for your statement . 
I think the lines that you have set up regarding the Food Safety Authority are a recognition of reality . 
The Member States would not accept a regulatory agency , so there is not very much point in your proposing one . 
Some sectors of the food industry clearly need better regulation and that is clear on the issue of feed and animal feedingstuffs . 
However , as chairman of a committee which looks as though it will be concerning itself almost entirely with food over the next three years , I have to ask : if Europe has the safest food control system , as you have said , why do we need 24 new directives and regulations and 20 new amending directives ? 
Secondly , will this not compound the problem of over - regulation from Brussels and under - implementation in the Member States ? We look forward to a fruitful dialogue with you on this . 
Regarding enlargement : what plans does the Commission have to involve the applicant states in debates on these new laws , given that the Commission clearly expects the laws envisaged in the White Paper to form part of the acquis communautaire by 2003 ? 
President , first of all I would like to thank Mrs Ahern , Mrs Roth - Behrendt and Mrs Jackson for their words of support in relation to the White Paper . 
I find that encouraging and I look forward to further discussions with them and other Members of Parliament in relation to the issues that they raised . 
Mrs Ahern raised the issue of liability . 
That of course is not specifically addressed in the White Paper except for the reference to the fact that we will be putting in place provisions - and there are already some - relating to the issue of traceability . 
Once that is done , issues such as liability can be addressed . 
I have not given full and detailed consideration to issues relating to and surrounding questions of liability despite my background , but it seems to me that there may very well be subsidiarity issues involved . 
But I have taken on board your suggestion and I will give it further consideration . 
Mrs Roth - Behrendt asked me about establishing a positive list . 
That is one of the issues that we address in the annex to the legislation , and the intention is to establish a positive list for feed material . 
At the moment the list is , as I say , a negative list and it is added to as required . 
The establishment of the positive list is one of the issues set out in the annex with a date attached to it , 2002 in fact . 
The rapid alert system for feed is something that we have identified as a gap in the legislation . 
Rapid alert is there for food but not for feed . 
This is unfortunate and it is wrong , and we believe that it is important to identify it and to establish legislation to close that gap and that will be done . 
The work in relation to BSE in Member States and the establishment of random testing to identify levels of infectivity in Member States is ongoing , I know that Mrs Roth - Behrendt has asked me this question before and I said I thought it was coming along quickly but I understand it is in inter - service consultation in the Commission and work is currently under way . 
I hope that the next time you ask me the question , I will be in a position to give you more detailed information . 
Mrs Jackson has focused on the fact that there are 24 new and 20 amending pieces of legislation and asks whether this compounds over - regulation . 
I should say that the pieces of legislation that we have identified are intended to close gaps in existing legislation . 
It is not so much a matter of the establishment of new regimes or further regulation , although that is part of it , but of identifying where there are gaps and loopholes in the chain from farm to table and closing them . 
There is a reference to applicant states and that is something that we have in mind . 
Standards of food safety and indeed other areas of safety are obviously of critical importance in relation to enlargement and this is a matter that I have drawn to the attention of Mr Verheugen . 
Commissioner , the ignorance of certain Member States has landed us in a major food crisis here in Europe , and I am afraid that once more I have cause to be angry at the fact that again no Members of the Council are in attendance , and that on the day that you present your interesting report . 
What I would very much like you to tell me is how you intend to guarantee that a new authority of this kind , whatever name it goes by , will be given influence over the Council , who in this authority will have the say in matters , and who will issue orders . 
Of course , we are not in a position to dictate anything in terms of content , but I would insist on Parliament retaining the rights accorded it under Maastricht and Amsterdam , and even extending them . 
I very much fear that we are to have yet another authority that flies through Europe anonymously like a satellite ; an authority of this kind would be anathema to me and I hope it does not come to that . 
I also welcome the White Paper . 
But do you envisage that the Food Safety Agency will have enough teeth to prevent something like the beef war that we have had and France ' s refusal to lift the ban ? 
You mentioned the Commission being able to withhold grants and subsidies from countries who are acting in the way that France is acting . 
Would you also propose that the Commission could give interim payments for instance , similar to the one that the British farmers are asking for at the moment ? 
