Mr President , Commissioner , metaphorically - speaking , what we have in the new I + C technologies is new fuel for our economic locomotive to re - heat our eco - system . 
However , I should like to raise three points which perhaps merit our attention . 
First : Article 6 of the Treaty of Amsterdam clearly calls for the principle of sustainability to be integrated into all policies . 
To be honest , Commissioner , on reading the communication , I find too little account has been taken of sustainability , the question of ecological products , incentives for an ecological lifestyle or the question of the impact which I + C technologies have on environmental protection . 
Improvements are therefore needed here . 
Secondly : how will our working life and employment relations change ? 
Will people be able to influence how they are organised ? 
We need to consider if we need new joint - decision structures in the face of these revolutionary developments , new structures for listening to employees and making decisions . 
Greater account needs to be taken of this . 
Thirdly : the Fifth Framework Programme on research contains a great deal of socio - economic research , the purpose of which is to analyse what holds Europe together in the area of I + C technologies . 
We cannot fill and heat our locomotive with ordinary fuel and , at the same time , carry out socio - economic flanking research under the framework programme which makes no reference to this communication . 
In short , we need to heat the locomotive but not to allow it to travel anywhere it pleases . This locomotive needs rails . 
Mr President , colleagues , not since the spread of universal suffrage in the last century has our society faced such a big potential transfer of power . 
The information society has potential to transfer power from government to individual , from bureaucrat to citizen and , of course , from business to consumer . 
It opens up a global market place and almost limitless information to anyone with access to a computer screen . 
It is the biggest engine to break down barriers between communities and nationalities that we have ever seen - bigger than any EU directive can possibly be . 
It offers more power , more choice , lower prices to citizens across Europe and indeed across the world , and in my view the best thing that governments can do in cyberspace is to stay out of it as much as they possibly can and let consumers , businesses and citizens get on with their businesses and their lives . 
Legislators cannot keep up with this technology even if they try to . 
Technology and industry are better equipped to respond to consumer concerns in what is an immensely competitive market . 
It is that competitive market which will ensure that consumers are protected , not heavy - handed legislation which might stunt e - commerce and leave others around the world to reap the benefits of a revolution in our economy which is unparalleled since the industrial revolution of the nineteenth century . 
But we all know that we need a base line of government involvement . 
We need a basic legislative framework for e - commerce . 
I hope it will be a light - touch framework , but we need to drive it through quickly because the e - clock is ticking and there are many organisations around the world fighting for this business . 
It is in our interest to make sure that we get the answers and our legislation right , but also to get them through quickly . 
We in this House should drive through the e - commerce directive with its country of origin principle as fast as we possibly can . 
We should adopt new rules on jurisdiction which trust consumers to make an informed choice about which jurisdiction they want to opt for . 
We should drive through the liberalisation of the telecoms package , because it is only with a low - cost competitive telecoms market that we can deliver this power , these low prices and these big opportunities to our consumers , because that is the only way to get low prices for our consumers . 
We want to build on Europe ' s lead on mobile telephony and adopt the examples of such great global players as Finland ' s Nokia . 
Member States should build on the IT skills concepts in their schools , but we must do this quickly because if we do not , others will take the prize on offer here , which is dominance in the global e - commerce market . 
Mr President , Commissioner , first of all let me thank Mrs Read for this report and point out at once that I will simply concentrate on the social aspects which , in our view , deserve a closer look . 
With the Lisbon Summit coming up in a few days , I think the European Parliament needs to send out a clear signal to the Member State governments that Europe ' s entry into the digital age , and therefore into a new economic area with very considerable potential , must not be at the price of social cohesion . 
The need for solid social foundations and for consideration of the people ' s real needs are , in my view , the sine qua non of the success of the information society , as we understand it in Europe , i . e . a society that cannot be built only on market forces . 
We must take the utmost care to ensure that all sectors of society benefit from the information society and that we do not create a society in which social inclusion or exclusion depend on access to the new technologies and the use of their potential . 
I think three points need to be noted , as well as the risks and concerns to which they give rise . 
The first relates to the users and the risk of a gap emerging between the various victims of social exclusion . 
The cost of Internet access , the sidelining of entire sectors of society ( the young unemployed , housewives , the elderly ) and the shortcomings in education and vocational training are serious obstacles to an information society meant to benefit everyone . 
The second relates to the individuals working in this sector ; given the flexibility that is a feature of the sector , organisational structures must be set up for the employees , together with guarantees of their rights , in relation to social security , pensions or the necessary job - security provisions . 
My third and last point relates to the question of public service and improving the democratic systems to develop procedures . . . 
 ( The President cut the speaker off ) 
Mr President , Commissioner , e - Europe is a really important programme for everyone en route from the industrial society to the information society . 
I would therefore like to congratulate the Portuguese presidency on its decision to make this issue the focus of the special summit . 
I should like to congratulate the Commission on its proposal and the rapporteur on her report and I should like to explain why I have praised you and why I should like to take you all at your word . 
The focal point of the report and the prime objective of the Commission ' s proposal make it clear that we need to achieve equal opportunities for , and equal participation of , all citizens in the information society . According to the text , e - Europe should , first and foremost , show each citizen , each household , each school , each company and each administration the way to the digital age and the Internet . 
This goal , in my view , does not justify the concerns raised here about a possible division in society between the haves and have - nots as far as access to information is concerned . 
I have highlighted this objective because I believe that it illustrates to particularly good effect how the citizens stand to benefit from European Union intervention in the information society , but , of course , only if we keep our word and fulfil the promises which we have made them . If we really do ensure by the end of 2002 that all schools - and this is in the programme - have high - speed access to the Internet and to multimedia resources in the classroom , if we really do ensure that by 2003 every citizen , rich or poor , has comprehensively guaranteed access to our health system and if we really do promptly take the action urgently needed in order to promote our SMEs , i . e . hedge the joint risks for venture capital in the Community . 
That is a task for the Council , Parliament and the Commission . 
I wish us all a great deal of success in the interests of our citizens . 
Mr President , Commissioner , I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the successful work that has been done in so short a period of time . 
An information society for all is certainly an area of focus for the Commissioner in this process . 
It is important , and I thank her for it . 
Agreement should be reached at Lisbon on the principles of the sustainable funding of social security on account of this notion . 
We also have to reach agreement with management and labour , for example , on the subject of remote working and vocational training , if what we are talking about is an information society for all . 
It will not be so if the basic rights of employees are not safeguarded . 
There is a threat that , because of the Internet , services will become self - services , and that again is a major employment issue . 
Another matter is that we have been deregulating the telecommunications industry for around ten years , and now , with these massive Internet players merging there is a fear that they will once again start regulating the market . 
This , I think , should be stopped . 
It cannot be allowed to happen and I expect the Commission to sit up and listen and take the necessary action . 
Thirdly , the quoted share value for a certain Internet company rose by a sudden 4 000 % in one month , and this came about merely because unsubstantiated information was given about it for the stock market . 
With many companies in the same position , or almost the same position , there is going to be a bubble effect in the industry , and when the crash comes I hope the taxpayer will not be footing the bill . 
Has the Commissioner a remedy in mind for if and when the air balloon companies in this sector burst so that the taxpayer does not have to pay out , as is the case with crises in the banks , for example ? 
Mr President , Commissioner , ladies and gentlemen , I think it is very important for the European Parliament to take part in the debate on the European Union ' s attitude to the opportunities opened up by the information society , an item on the agenda for the Lisbon Summit . 
While stressing that many people had hoped for clearer answers in this area from the employment summit , I do not undervalue the relevance of the issue and the need to define a European strategy for the sector . 
We all know the Union is lagging far behind the United States in this sensitive area , which is so vital to our future . 
I concur with Mrs Read ' s report and , borrowing an expression used here by the President of the Council , António Guterres , I want to highlight the three main deficits in the sector . 
First there is the pragmatic deficit . 
As the Read report correctly points out , the document put forward by the Commission is full of general guidelines and laudable intentions , but it is weak on concrete measures and ensuing actions . 
I would not like to believe the Council ' s conclusions will be restricted to this list . 
On this issue , as on others , we do not need more statements and speeches , we need measures and decisions that can reduce the huge lead the United States has on us . 
Then there is the democratic deficit - which has been greater , admittedly - but it is important to combat the division between those who have access to the Internet , the new technologies and the benefits of the information society , and those deprived of them either for economic reasons , or because of insufficient technological information and education . 
Our first concern must be to prioritise our commitment to the educational system and in the carrier and telecommunications structures which make access to the Internet cheaper , faster and more powerful . 
And finally there is the investment deficit . 
As the report rightly affirms , the response to these problems cannot be left to the market alone . 
A great deal can and must be done in the health system , in public administration , in relations between governments and people , and in public services generally to ensure that Europe takes the qualitative leap we all recognise to be necessary today . 
Mr President , the point of the special summit in Lisbon next week is to define the European way in the future world of employment . 
How can we become more competitive ? 
How can we create new markets ? 
How can we create permanent , more highly - qualified jobs ? 
We can take one of the leading roles in tomorrow ' s global information society , provided that we learn the script . 
Europe has talents . 
Europe has skills . 
Occasionally we lack competent directors to motivate us . 
I personally feel that it is important for broad target groups to take an active part in these serious changes . 
They need to familiarise themselves with the Internet and data bases from an early age . 
Mrs Hieronymi pointed that out . 
Schools without computers must become the exception . 
We need a qualification offensive with computer - aided learning and active use of networks . 
The European Parliament ' s Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is calling for the information society to become the common property of all citizens , including the socially weak , the disabled and older people . 
The pace of change is hotting up in the European economy . 
Undertakings are subject to constant restructuring , new holdings , strategic alliances and friendly or hostile takeovers . 
The consequences for both employees and managers is the same : greater mobility and faster and faster adjustment . 
Independence is increasing , as is pseudo - independence . 
Within companies , responsibilities are changing . 
Teams have shorter and shorter sell - by dates . 
That has repercussions for the internal composition and the representation of the interests of employees . 
Many companies are too small to set up works councils or are so large that relationships are not even forged and employee representatives become roving ambassadors . 
People in ICT professions who have a great deal of freedom , analysts , engineers and creative planners , want to be their own bosses . 
They are fighting for new working time regulations and new variable contract - based tariff and remuneration systems . 
In addition , trade unions in other areas fear that unregulated structures will spread and social standards will drop . 
Citizens must be familiar with new forms of work and working relations in the information and communications industry , be they in the hardware sector , the software sector , services or consultancy . 
Once they are able to share in innovation , once they can be won over by the information society , then it must be made clear that this is a success or an advantage not just for private - and public - sector undertakings , but for consumers and employees alike . 
Mr President , I want to begin by thanking Mrs Read for all the work she has put into the present report . 
It is wonderful that there should be such a lot of interest in this area . 
I believe it is important that , here in the European Parliament , we should now promote further knowledge of these complex and exciting developments and create a readiness to implement the necessary changes . 
Commissioner Liikanen , with his personal commitment , and the Commission ' s " e - Europe " document represent a positive vision of the new economy and a growth - orientated policy which I wholeheartedly support . 
It is unfortunate that certain Members see the burgeoning information society as a threat , rather than appreciate the opportunities it involves . 
The significance of e - commerce is difficult to overestimate . 
Until now , the single market has only been a reality for major companies . e - commerce means that the single market will become accessible in a quite different way to smaller companies and , above all , to individuals , customers and consumers , who can now finally benefit from the whole of the European single market . 
In the wake of technological change , there will not only be changes to patterns of trade , but new opportunities will also be created where the arts , entertainment and personal contacts are concerned . 
In order to best support the new economy , it is important that we as politicians should not believe that we can foresee companies ' and people ' s every need . 
We must allow the market , that is to say purchasers and vendors , to choose for themselves . 
In view of the way this part of society and of the economy looks , it is even more important not to engage in a fever of regulation by controlling activities in every detail . 
Instead , we must further deregulate markets so as to increase competition with a view to reducing prices . 
That is definitely the best way of making information services available to all citizens . 
An important part of creating growth in the new economy is to increase the flow of venture capital for newly started - up and expanding businesses . 
We must increase competitiveness and the development of ideas in our part of the world , that is to say in Europe . 
The most important thing that heads of State and government can do in Lisbon is to begin reducing taxes on capital in their various countries , for it is these which now constitute the greatest obstacle to an increased flow of venture capital . 
To the left - hand side of this House , I would say , following the present debate : try to affirm the opportunities available to people because of the information revolution . 
Avoid being so fearful and negative . 
Take Mrs Villiers ' insights on board . 
Adopt Mr Wijkman ' s global and positive attitude , and learn from young Mrs Kauppi ' s experiences . 
I do not think we should underestimate the problem of making the relevant adjustments , but do not bury this initiative in your old conceptual world . 
That would be Europe ' s loss . 
