Mr President , I want first to thank Mrs Read and Parliament for the report , which has been produced extremely rapidly and is very important , because the extraordinary summit will take place next week and the e - Europe initiative is one of the fundamental documents there . 
The subtitle of the e - Europe initiative ,  " An Information Society for All "  , or we could also say as Mr Seppänen has said here ,  " A Knowledge - based Society for All "  , is an indication of the far - reaching objectives of this initiative . 
We welcome the contribution of Parliament to this very important policy debate . 
The Commission is currently contributing to the preparation of next week ' s summit in Lisbon . 
To this end , the Commission has adopted several communications including a progress report on e - Europe last week and a paper setting out an agenda for economic and social renewal for Europe two weeks ago . 
I find it very important that Parliament is participating through today ' s debate in the discussions before the Lisbon Summit . 
The debate has been really illuminating and has shown the great interest and also the expertise of Parliament on this issue . 
We hope that the Lisbon European Council will endorse concrete , focused policy actions providing a strong signal that European leaders are determined to transform Europe into a dynamic and competitive economy . 
As to the content of your reports , I note that you have expressed concern that mechanisms through which the targets of e - Europe are to be achieved are not made explicit in our initial document . 
In this context , the progress report submitted by the Commission to the Lisbon Council last week and also submitted to you last week will provide further details . 
In addition , there will be an e - Europe action plan by June as requested at the Helsinki Summit . 
I hope that these documents will answer many of your concerns in relation to the realisation of the goals of e - Europe , but it may be that some of the issues will not be addressed , because we must try to remain focused in this initiative . 
I am particularly pleased to see that the report shares the Commission ' s view on the key elements of e - Europe . 
It is essential to create a modern multimedia high - performance e - infrastructure , to create legal certainty in e - commerce , to counteract the skills shortage and to improve the availability of risk capital to stimulate innovation . 
Your support to move forward on these key elements of e - Europe is most welcome . 
I find the idea of organising an e - government conference highly interesting . 
It is important that we in the European institutions , along with Member States , develop effective means of exploiting the potential of regional technologies , to increase both the efficiency and transparency of our interactions with citizens . 
I can report to you that this will be one of the main topics of a ministerial conference organised by the Portuguese presidency in Lisbon in early April . 
I would also like to add that the White Paper on the Commission ' s internal reform contains an " e - Commission " action . 
The aim is to enhance the Commission ' s IT and communications infrastructure in order to provide better service by means of the Internet . 
I would like to briefly respond to some items where the emphasis of the discussion has perhaps been a little different from the Commission document . 
The Commission is asked to include an eleventh action line on employment and social cohesion . 
I fully accept that these are very high priorities , and for that very reason particular communications have been accepted on these subjects . 
I would like to mention especially the communication " Strategies for Jobs in the Information Society "  . 
I also agree with you that the information society is perhaps the biggest opportunity for structural policies and policies for cohesion that we have had , because it means the death of distance . 
The " e - Europe " communication focuses on the actions necessary to accelerate the transition to the information society . 
These actions will result in increasing numbers of jobs and will thereby reduce the principal cause of social exclusion , namely unemployment . 
Your report expresses concern about the smart card action . 
I would like to assure you that this action is not intended to intervene in an area that , the report rightly notes , is market - driven . 
The Commission ' s role is purely a facilitating one , bringing together the key actors and enabling them to move towards agreement on standard approaches . 
The aim is not to disadvantage other technologies . 
It is not clear how the Commission can guarantee ethical security of services , but I fully share the view that we should take all measures to ensure respect for human rights ; existing actions , primarily the Internet action plan , address this issue . 
Finally , I would like to close by thanking you once again for your work in this area . 
The efforts which you have made confirm that you share with us a sense of the importance and urgency of this issue for Europe . 
Thank you , Commissioner . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place at 12 noon . 
Vote
Mr President , the debate on my report on the European Union ' s action plans on asylum - seekers and migrants has been postponed until this evening at 6 p . m . , and the vote until tomorrow at 9 a . m . 
I would like to see the importance of the issue reflected in the debate and vote in this House . 
So I would ask you to put it to the House that the debate be deferred to the next part - session in Brussels . 
 ( Parliament agreed to the request ) 
Before these votes are taken , I think it is important for this House and the Bureau to decide , finally , whether the Strasbourg sittings finish on Thursday or if there should still be sittings on Fridays . 
It does not make any sense for us to be amending the agenda here for the convenience of people ' s travel plans only to pack the agenda for the Brussels mini - sessions which are always very full as it is . 
Report ( A5 - 0064 / 2000 ) by Mr Duff and Mr Voggenhuber , on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs , on the drafting of a European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights ( C5 - 0058 / 1999 - 1999 / 2064 ( COS ) ) 
Mr President , I have asked to take the floor simply because the Italian translation of paragraph 6c is very strange . 
We have sent a note in this regard , but nothing has been done about it , and so I would ask you now to investigate the matter . 
The text appears to be saying that violations of fundamental rights are permitted if the European Parliament is in agreement , which seems rather absurd to me . 
Mr President , I would like to draw attention to the text of paragraph 6 ( c ) , in line with the doubts raised by Mrs Frassoni . 
We have made a quick check here and the Portuguese text seems to have the same meaning as the French text , implying that the majority of this House believes fundamental rights can be violated if the European Parliament agrees to it . 
I do not know if this is a language problem or a political problem , given the speeches we have heard here about Austrian political rights . 
However , this is a very sensitive issue , and I want to raise it with the Bureau , so that the matter can be clarified , because if that is what we are supposed to have voted for , I think an extremely grave political precedent has been created . 
We always have a check on the language versions to make sure they conform to the original language version at the end of the votes . 
 ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
Mr President , one other brief point . 
I must respect the fact that we have just deferred the report by Mr Hernandez Mollar by a majority , but I would ask that we refrain in the future from simply changing the agenda between two reports during the vote without any speakers for or against and without thinking through the consequences . 
It violates the Rules of Procedure and should not happen again . 
I have some sympathy with that remark . 
Perhaps we should ask the Rules of Procedure Committee to look at the precise procedural methods we use here . 
It is very clear that if a report has come from a committee , the committee can request referral back . 
But when it has been set on the agenda at the beginning of the week I am not clear that Members can move deferral . 
I was not sure , so we should refer it to the Rules Committee . 
Mr President , before we vote on the Jackson resolution on the Structural Fund programmes , may I draw Parliament ' s attention to the French Council of State decree dated 27 September 1999 which cancels the notification of 500 sites that could be designated as special conservation sites and therefore pose a problem . 
The Commission has not expressed its opinion on that . 
The Council of State ruled that the procedure had not been respected , i . e . that the mayors and regional and local authorities , organisations and associations concerned had not been consulted . 
We do not know exactly what the situation is at present . 
To ensure that Member States are not unjustly penalised , I move that the vote on this report be deferred until the Commission has delivered its reasoned opinion on action to be taken following the Council of State decree . 
I also think Parliament cannot be both judge and judged . 
We could have a long debate about this but rather than get into a procedural wrangle , you are not , strictly speaking , entitled to move this . 
I am not going to debate it . 
The easier thing is to put it to the vote . 
 ( Parliament rejected the proposal ) 
Mr President , let me repeat what I said yesterday , namely that the French Socialists will not take part in the vote because they believe that this is not the correct procedure , since the only environmental directives referred to are those on wild birds and on Natura 2000 and a more balanced approach should have been taken . 
My second point is that we do not believe it is in the remit of the legislative authority to decide whether the laws have been transposed . That is up to the Commission and also the Court of Justice . 
Mr President , I simply wanted to say that if Mrs Lienemann was so worried it is a pity she did not take part in the debate and make her points to the Commissioner during the debate . 
Mr President , I agree with that remark , for I am surprised at some of the statements made here . 
This is in fact the first time this kind of observation , which was not heard in committee , has been made , and I regret it . 
Today we are to vote on this resolution , which is why we are asking for a vote on the work done in committee . 
I think it is excellent that we are trying to adhere to the Rules of Procedure and , on the basis of what was stated by Mrs Lienemann a moment ago , it is quite obvious that there are circumstances which have not been dealt with in committee . 
With reference to the Rules of Procedure , I would therefore take the liberty of proposing that the matter be postponed and referred back to committee . 
Mr President , I wish to make a personal statement and remind Mrs Jackson , who certainly has a lot of work as chairman of the committee , that , at the first committee meeting at which we discussed this subject , I said I disagreed with the biased way certain directives were selected and not others . 
Moreover , Mrs Jackson , I tabled numerous amendments calling for the series of paragraphs you had proposed to be deleted . 
My amendments were not adopted in committee and I therefore felt it was not acceptable for us to continue on these bases . 
Mrs Isler Béguin was not in committee on the days we discussed these subjects . 
You will find exactly the same arguments I have put forward today in the Minutes of the committee meeting and in my amendments . 
I know we have a great deal of work in committee and that colleagues cannot always remember amendments in detail , which I fully understand . 
However , I wanted to point this out . 
Mr President , I am sorry , I have been trying to catch your attention but you are going very fast , on which I congratulate you . 
On Mrs Jackson ' s report , I just want to say that I did not take part in the vote for similar reasons to Mrs Lienemann . 
I believe respect for Community law must be general and cannot be based on selective , and therefore necessarily arbitrary , interpretations . 
I ask for it to be recorded in the Minutes that I did not take part in the vote . 
Annual report ( A5 - 0050 / 2000 ) by Mr Haarder , on behalf of the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms and Rights , Justice and Home Affairs , on respect for human rights in the European Union ( 1988 - 1999 )  ( 11350 / 1999 - C5 - 0265 / 1999 - 1999 / 2001 ( INI ) ) 
Concerning paragraph 45 : 
Mr President , before we vote on paragraph 45 , I would like the rapporteur to hear what I have to say . 
The Italian version of the second part of the paragraph refers firstly to physical , psychological and sexual abuse of children , and then the final part reads " urges them not to imprison child abusers , except as a last resort "  . 
I would like to know whether this clause has the same meaning in his language . 
Would the rapporteur be so kind as to inform us whether his version is the authentic version , for , if so , the meaning is the complete opposite to the Italian . 
Mr President , I believe I can shed some light on the matter . 
I have read the French version of the text , and it is completely different from the Italian version at this point . 
The Italian says " not to imprison child abusers " , which seems absurd to me , whereas the French reads :  " not to imprison young people who commit offences " which , I think , must be the original meaning . 
This a serious translation error . 
I feel sure that the Italian is a mistranslation . 
The original version probably said " not to imprison young people who commit offences , except in special cases "  . 
I think this is the root of the problem . 
I am able to confirm that it is Mr Imbeni ' s interpretation which is the correct one . 
The French , Danish and English versions are correct . 
The phrase is to be understood as Mr Imbeni said . 
Mr President , if we change the meaning of the paragraph , the debate will start all over again . 
It is a common occurrence in this Parliament for texts not to correspond . 
Do you remember when , a few months ago , we were told to distribute condoms to priests ? 
This time , according to some versions , we are told to protect child abusers . 
If we change the English version as well , Mr President , we will have to start the debate afresh and , seeing as your plane leaves at 4 . 30 this afternoon , this does not seem appropriate . 
Maybe it would be better to stop at the comma , after " physical and psychological abuse and all kinds of discrimination "  . 
We could then deal with the behaviour of young people who commit offences later on , in one of the many other reports which are churned out by Parliament . 
Mr President , the rapporteur clearly explained the meaning of the text in the sense referred to by Mr Imbeni . 
You have read the English version of the text , which is accepted by the overwhelming majority of those present . 
I really must ask you to allow us to continue the vote , especially as these little semantic games always come from the people who take no part in the technical work in committee . 
If the House could agree we could overcome all the difficulties that we have with the language versions by putting in as a separate paragraph itself - either as a sub - paragraph of 45 or as a new 45 ( a )  - which says " and urges them not to imprison young people who commit offences , except as a last resort "  . 
That would overcome all the difficulty . 
There is no ambiguity , there is no uncertainty . 
Mr President , a number of words have been omitted from paragraph 61 of the Danish version . 
It is the English version which is correct . 
In the Danish version , the following words should be added after the words " trade unions "  :  " as well as the rights of individuals vis - à - vis trade unions "  . 
It is , then , not only a question of the right to form trade unions but also of rights vis - à - vis these trade unions . 
 ( Parliament adopted the resolution ) 
Mr President , I should like to make a point of order . 
We voted on this report in committee , a committee on which all groups are represented . 
We dealt with 170 amendments to this report in committee . 
We have now been presented with 66 amendments in plenary . 
This is not a legislative report . 
If the House continues to organise its business in this way we will not only be a laughing - stock but we will fail to get through the very serious business that we have . 
We ask the appropriate bodies in this House to look again at the way in which we organise our work . 
As it happens , we have a report by Mr Provan in which the Bureau is looking at how the plenary functions . 
We had a debate on that in the Bureau on Tuesday and I made exactly the point you have just made . 
So I agree with you one hundred percent . 
Mr President , this is only the fourth point of order I have raised in nearly eleven years as an MEP , so I hope you will listen . 
I want to ask you and those others who preside over these sessions to be much more strict about points of order . 
We lost nearly half - an - hour this morning and many of the points of order that were raised then , and are often raised here , are things that Members have just thought of that they would like to share with others . 
That hardly constitutes a point of order . 
I suppose I feel particularly peeved because my own report on e - Europe , which is the only thing from this Parliament before the Lisbon Summit , has been squeezed off to a time when there will be a relatively poor attendance . 
I ask you - and I echo Mr Watson ' s point of order - to take those points back to your President and co - Vice - Presidents and ask them to be much tougher . 
It might make you unpopular in the short - run but I think it would make you loved and admired in the long - run . 
I am usually accused of being too brusque with Members who want to make a point of order . 
I suppose I cannot win . 
The trouble is that when people ask for the floor on a point of order you do not know if it is a valid point until they have made it . 
Mr President , you mentioned that you wanted to break off now . 
I urgently request that you continue the vote . 
We are fed up with constant changes to the agenda and postponements at short notice . 
I therefore ask that you quickly resume and complete the vote on the Ludford report and the rest of the agenda . 
I agree with Mr Pirker , and it is probably the only thing I will agree with him on if we do vote on the Ludford report . 
It is going to be an interesting vote . 
It is unreasonable at this stage to postpone it to a time when a lot of people will have left . 
If you are intending to postpone it to 5 . 30 p . m . , it will totally distort the vote on this report . 
I urge that we carry on now , understanding all the difficulties that you have mentioned . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , I understand what is being asked here . 
But what I have to say to you is this : take a look around the House , it has already voted , with its feet ! 
The members have already left ! 
We cannot work seriously if we follow the procedure which you have suggested , Mr President ; nor can we do so if we work here with random majorities . 
Now more members may have left from one group than from other and that may well distort the vote on the Ludford report . 
Even the rapporteur does not want that . 
For the rest , we can still vote at 5 . 30 this evening . 
That is quite in order . 
I think we should work here with a properly - ordered procedure . 
We have already overrun by 45 minutes . 
I suggest that we vote this evening . 
Mr President , if every time there are amendments to be made to the Rules of Procedure the whole of Parliament is going to act as you have done , giving me the floor at the end and treating small groups as you have done , then I would rather everything remained exactly the way it is . 
In fact , every time Parliament decides to deal with the issue of long voting sessions it ends up suppressing the rights of the individual Members . 
The point is , that part - sessions run from Monday to Friday , and if you have to leave earlier for some reason , then that is your problem , not the fault of the voting session . 
Mr President , I should like to request that it not be taken this evening . 
The vote will be totally distorted . 
We know that a lot of people will leave this afternoon . 
They do not expect this kind of vote on a Thursday afternoon . 
Could we not postpone it until the April plenary session in Strasbourg ? 
I am afraid that would have to be decided before we take the vote this evening . 
Mr President , there are other categories of worker whose jobs are much more tiring than ours and whose work compels them to postpone their mealtimes , and yet they do not complain and they do not leave their work unfinished , as we are about to do . 
This is shameful . 
We have been here for less than two hours and we have already had enough . 
What would sailors , pilots , drivers , petrol station workers and doctors say ? 
I find it absolutely absurd that we are not able to work for more than two hours at a time . 
You are just making the point that I made when I said we could not carry on with the votes . 
Mr President , I think the translation of Mr Speroni ' s speech may not have been entirely correct . He appeared to me to be saying the complete opposite regarding the decision taken . 
If the Members had been prepared to wait half an hour longer before eating , this would not appear to have been too great a sacrifice . Effectively , it does cause problems when you randomly move important measures to a Friday sitting . 
For example , we voted on drugs , which is a highly disputed issue , on a Friday . We will vote on these measures either this evening or on Friday . 
This appears to us to be a political manoeuvre to influence the majorities in this Chamber . You arrange our agenda and our timetable according to whether you want a particular measure to be adopted . 
Mr President , in order to be completely fair , you should have called for one intervention for the decision to suspend the sitting or continue and adhere to the scheduled voting time and one intervention against . 
Once again , the wishes of the Chamber have been disregarded . Democracy only exists on paper : it is not applied within this Parliament . 
Mr President , I am sorry but I asked for the floor at the start . 
Two specific points . 
First , I wanted to vote for , not against proposed amendment 24 . 
Secondly , I should like to say that there is a rule here , that it is standard practice to vote up to 1 . 30 p . m . on Thursdays and to leave the rest until 6 . 00 p . m . , after the urgent votes . 
We have done so for years and we can be flexible one way or the other pretty much as we please . 
Perhaps all the members should be reminded of that . 
Members are supposed to work here through to Friday , so that we can use the afternoons to see our visitors . 
Mr President , perhaps I can be of help here . 
The rapporteur has stated that she agrees with your suggestion , i . e . with the President ' s suggestion . 
Allow me to recapitulate : the President said that we are to vote at 5 . 30 this evening on whether or not to postpone the vote until the next plenary session . 
Please let us proceed thus . 
Sarah Ludford has stated that she agrees with that . 
So , we vote at 5 . 30 p . m . on postponing the Ludford report to the next plenary session . 
That is my motion . 
There is absolutely no problem with that . 
It is well within the Rules . 
It can be done immediately before the vote . 
It is normal procedure . 
That is why I cannot take it now . 
The Rules say you move postponement before the vote on the matter . 
That concludes the votes . 
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE - Graefe zu Baringdorf report ( A5 - 0044 / 2000 ) 
