We need to pay close attention to the issue of animal health , particularly that of bovine animals and swine , hence the importance of sanitary inspections in intra - Community trade in these species . 
This approach must also take account of the need to put more effort into the total eradication of diseases like leucosis , tuberculosis and brucellosis , and into adequate health procedures . 
But it is also vital to remember that producers need proper support , with special attention being paid to small farms and family farming given that , as in Portugal , the already low incomes of small farmers are often profoundly affected by these diseases and this is not generally made up for by the low level of compensation . 
So it is essential that intervention in future makes it possible to protect both the interests of consumers and the interests of producers , especially of small farmers . 
Ferrer report ( A5 - 0066 / 2000 ) 
 -  ( DA ) We cannot vote in favour of the report since there are gross abuses of human rights in Mexico . 
That has most recently been demonstrated in an Amnesty report from December 1999 which draws attention to , among other things , the serious problems in the Chiapas region . 
We think it is splendid that the trade agreement has had built into it a demand to promote democracy in Mexico - including the observance of human rights - but , as long as this demand is not followed up by concrete action , it is merely a case of empty words . 
A democracy clause was also built into the old trade agreement with Mexico , but this was not complied with . 
Pressure must therefore be exerted upon Mexico through international organisations such as the UN and via individual nations . 
Only after that , and when there have been significant improvements in the area of human rights , do we think that we can enter into a new trade agreement with Mexico . 
 -  ( FR ) At its meeting of 7 May 1999 , the European Parliament adopted the EU - Mexico Global Agreement even though none of its Members knew the terms of negotiation of its trade aspects . 
Furthermore , we continue to see cases of impunity , violations of human rights , the repression of social protest movements and an undeclared war against the indigenous people of Chiapas . All this has been condemned by , among others , the UN High Commission for Human Rights and the Inter - American Commission for Human Rights , and these practices conflict with the undertakings the Mexican authorities entered into under this agreement ( Title I , Article 1 ) . 
The association agreement was designed to serve the interests of the large transnational firms on either side of the Atlantic , as shown by the wording of its Title IV , which refers to capital movements and related payments . 
Under the heading of trade , we find a repeat of several of the most dangerous points of the MAI ( Multilateral Agreement on Investments ) . 
Finally , this agreement ignores most of the proposals put forward by social , trade union , human rights and environmental organisations in Mexico and the European Union which , for their part , aim to ensure that social , cultural and political cooperation take precedence over mercenary aspects . 
For all those reasons , we shall vote against ratifying this agreement . 
 -  ( DE ) I voted against the EU ­ Mexico agreement , not because I am against more intensive cooperation between the European Union and Mexico in principle , but because the agreement , in its form for the purpose of the vote , is unbalanced and flawed from a development policy point of view . 
Never before has Mexico made so many concessions to a much stronger trading partner as it is now making to the European Union . 
The impact on Mexico cannot be quantified , although the NAFTA agreement has already resulted in the impoverishment of large sections of the Mexican population and the demise of small undertakings . 
The rules of the agreement on which we have voted go even further than those of the NAFTA agreement . 
For example , the liberalisation of investments which is championed covers all sectors of the economy . 
In other words it is a mini - MAI . 
The drop in the standard of living and the inequalities between the European Union and Mexico which already exist will be exacerbated yet further . 
Whereas Mexico has been required to make numerous concessions to Europe ( such as in the agricultural , investment and public procurement sectors ) , the EU has included derogations and restrictions for itself in order to keep competition at bay . 
It is obvious that the European side , especially Europe ' s large corporate groups , will profit from the agreement with Mexico . 
It is a gift to large - scale European industry . 
However , it will do nothing to improve the living and working conditions of the Mexicans , on the contrary . 
There is no mention in the agreement of employee rights or social standards . 
It contradicts development policy objectives and for this reason among others Mexican NGOs and other parties have asked their Senate not to sign this agreement . 
The EU is trying to use individual agreements with developing and newly - industrialised countries in order to implement what it failed to achieve at the WTO conference of ministers in Seattle , partly due to the resistance of developing countries . 
Its main objective in the present case is to gain access to the lucrative NAFTA area via Mexico . 
The living conditions of the people have been disregarded . 
This agreement does not bring about the progress needed in relations between Europe and Mexico , nor is it a suitable model for similar agreements to be concluded in the future , for example with Mercosur . 
Agreements with developing countries must serve their interests first and foremost , not the interests of European corporate groups . 
Joint resolution on the annual legislative programme
Mr President , I want to give the explanation on behalf of the Liberal Group in respect of the Commission ' s legislative programme . 
We abstained as a group throughout this vote . The reason , as we made clear during the debate on Tuesday , is because we believe the process to be flawed , not because we necessarily have any quarrel with the content . 
Having put this marker down for this time , in the future we would like to see the process reviewed so that it amounts to more than just ourselves as a Parliament swapping lists with the Commission . 
We want something more substantial and meaningful . 
 -  ( FR ) We voted against the joint motion for a resolution because it means granting a full discharge to the European Commission in advance and we disapprove of that in terms of both form and content . 
We abstained on the GUE resolution because , although we agree with a number of its criticisms of the Commission , in the recitals the Commission is described as an " indispensable interinstitutional instrument "  , which is not how we see it . 
Duff / Voggenhuber report ( A5 - 0064 / 2000 ) 
Mr President , we heard many speakers from the federalist majority of this Parliament say here yesterday that the Charter of Fundamental Human Rights under preparation would give a big boost to citizens ' rights . 
However , the conditions under which this initiative was put forward tend more to reflect contempt for the life of the citizens and give us cause for serious concern about what will happen next . 
First of all , a few months ago , we discovered , tucked away in the Cologne conclusions , in paragraphs 44 and 45 , the decision to start drafting a Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
Who was consulted beforehand ? 
No one , and certainly not the national parliaments , who had never heard of it . 
All the same , however , we must remember that basically fundamental rights come within the remit of the national parliaments and , as a whole , of the various peoples of Europe . 
Of course , some people will say this was merely a new formulation of existing rights , but it is clear that this operation will go much further , with the European Parliament already calling for an innovative Charter . 
In any case , whatever its final form , the national parliaments should not have been sidelined . 
They are now involved in the Convention to draft the Charter , but only as one partner among others , which will guarantee an imperfect job . 
Worse still , they will not even be involved in the final stage , since the Cologne conclusions provide that the Charter will be proclaimed jointly by the Council , the European Parliament and the Commission . 
Yes , I did say " the Commission "  . 
So the national parliaments find themselves sidelined and replaced by a body of officials who will ' proclaim the Charter '  . 
That is quite ludicrous ! 
Democracy is sidelined , supposedly for the good of the citizens . 
But then is that not how Europe usually works ? 
Mr President , I voted for the report despite many misgivings because it included Mrs Morgan ' s excellent proposed amendment on minority languages and cultures . 
I would also like to have seen support for Mr Vidal ' s proposal . 
But I think that we have taken an important step here towards greater protection of minorities traditionally present in the European Union . 
We cannot keep setting criteria for candidate countries which we fail to meet ourselves . 
Mr President , my party , the Socialist Party in the Netherlands , is in favour of democratic cooperation from the bottom up among the European peoples , but not of a large European superstate modelled on the United States of America . 
A European constitution could provide the initial impetus for a superstate of this kind . 
I have , therefore , supported a number of amendments tabled by the UEN Group and the EDD Group with regard to the Duff - Voggenhuber report . 
This does not apply to similar amendments tabled by the TDI Group , although I completely share the criticism expressed therein regarding the fact that national parliaments are being overlooked , the lack of referenda , and the attempts to turn the European Union into a superstate . 
If the parties of the TDI Group had taken a consistent line on the equivalence of all people and on democracy , I would certainly have supported their amendments . 
However , I had to consider their view of the world in my deliberations . Of all the groups represented here , it is their view that takes least account of equivalence , democracy and human rights . 
This is why I was unable to support their proposals . 
Mr President , this week Parliament has dealt with the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights and we have specified - adequately I believe - the civil rights of individuals . 
For me , however , as a representative of the Basque Country , collective rights are still lacking - and I hope they will soon be included - for example , the right of self - determination for European peoples and nations with a collective consciousness as such , so that , if a majority of their citizens so decide , they can join the European Union directly and not just through the existing Member States . 
We also approved the inclusion of the right to protection of the diversity of European languages and cultures , especially the less widespread and less used national and regional languages , which also gives due recognition to the official languages of the autonomous communities and regions , like the Basque language . 
In this increasingly global world , some people want to impose homogeneity on us , as if we were all soldiers or units in a production chain . 
So I want to claim the right to an individual and collective identity , the right to diversity and difference . 
That is definitely a fundamental right worth defending in the European Union . 
 -  ( DA ) The Danish and Swedish Social Democrats have today voted in favour of the report by Mr Andrew Nicholas Duff and Mr Johannes Voggenhuber regarding drawing up a European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
We are in favour of the drawing up of a Charter of Fundamental Rights in the form of a political document . 
In this period of reforms of the EU , including its enlargement , it is important to focus upon the fact that the EU ' s raison d ' être is to protect individual citizens . 
A Charter could make a positive contribution to this . 
In drawing up a Charter of Fundamental Rights , there is always a certain danger of citizens ' viewing it simply as a meaningless piece of paper , to be waved on state occasions but destined to disappoint . 
A majority of the European Parliament is therefore calling for the Charter to be of binding effect and to be incorporated into the Treaty , in other words for the agenda of the current Intergovernmental Conference to be extended . 
In connection with previous votes on this subject , we have clearly expressed our view that there should be no more issues on the agenda than it will be possible to resolve at the Nice Summit in December . 
We have already emphasised that no more obstacles should be put in the way of enlargement of the Union . 
Drawing up a set of binding , fundamental rights would raise a series of very difficult questions of principle , in terms both of the content of these rights and of their relationship to other sets of fundamental rights , for example the European Convention on Human Rights . 
It is therefore unrealistic to expect the issues to have been resolved by December . 
For that reason alone , we do not think that fundamental rights should be on the agenda of the current Intergovernmental Conference . 
We have made this known in the individual votes en route to the report . 
If we nonetheless choose to vote in favour of the whole report , that is because we believe that fundamental human rights are one of the foundations upon which the EU is built and because we want a Charter concerning these to be drawn up in the form of a political document . 
Whether it is subsequently to be incorporated into the Treaty in a form that is binding will depend upon an assessment of whether the content of the Charter would provide citizens with better protection than that which they have at present . 
 -  ( SV ) The most important development for the EU ' s future right now is that the Intergovernmental Conference should reach agreement concerning the reforms which are required in order to facilitate the enlargement of the Union in accordance with a fixed timetable . 
It is therefore a matter of urgency that the Nice Summit should be able to make decisions concerning the Amsterdam leftovers . 
We have voted in favour of the EU ' s Charter of Fundamental Rights being introduced as a matter to be considered by the Intergovernmental Conference , thereby guaranteeing , among other things , citizens ' rights in relation to the EU ' s institutions . 
The Charter is an expression of the EU ' s ambition to bring the EU closer to its citizens . 
Our point of departure is that the work on reviewing the treaties must progress following the Nice Summit and that the EU ' s Charter of Fundamental Rights should form part of this on - going process . 
 -  ( DA ) The European Parliament ' s report on the Charter is characterised by one pervasive idea : the desire for EU citizenship in a supranational State , whether one likes that term or not . 
This way of thinking is fundamentally different from our own vision of a European Community . 
The Union is , and should remain , a union of States . 
It must therefore be ensured that the Charter does not in any way interfere with the Member States ' national constitutions or equivalent arrangements for establishing fundamental rights . 
This is not to support the view that those in power can do as they like within a given country ' s borders , but an expression of the view that human rights are nothing less than universal and require universal tools by way of protection . 
Moreover , we do not wish to see two sets of rights on the European continent - one for citizens of EU countries and another for citizens of non - EU countries . 
It is therefore crucial for any EU Charter not to affect existing international conventions and declarations of rights , but merely to require that EU countries sign these . 
Growing problems arise when the EU acquires more and more powers as a State but cannot be bound in relation to , for example , the European Convention on Human Rights . 
We do not , however , see it as a solution for the EU to accede to the Convention on Human Rights as a juristic " person "  , since we do not share the view that the EU is , or should be , identified as having the status of a separate politico - governmental body . 
Nor do we support the constitutional process of which the adoption of a Charter is an integral part . 
We prefer the Treaty to state that the EU ' s authorities respect the competence and decisions of the Court of Human Rights . 
Legal practice of this kind makes it possible to condemn an aspect of Community law which is open to criticism and which has arisen through a Member State ' s use of that law . 
The European Court of Justice should not have jurisdiction over areas already covered by the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg or by other international bodies . 
If the existing conventions are found to be inadequate , for example , because bio - technological developments give rise to new problems , then this is an international problem to which international solutions should be sought . 
It is not solely a concern of the EU , and we must seek international and global consensus in international forums . 
We are therefore voting against the whole report . 
 -  ( FR ) Our abstention from the vote on the Charter certainly does not mean we are opposed to its European character . 
On the contrary , we are persuaded that in future we shall see a Europe without frontiers between unified nations , from one end of the continent to the other . 
However , the European institutions , like the national institutions , tend far more to represent the interests of big capital than the interests of the people as a whole , and especially of the working people . 
Democratic rights and freedoms , like democracy itself , can only be genuinely expressed so long as they do not conflict with the interests of large industrial and financial groups . 
Whichever of the two institutional trends implicitly reflected in the debate about the Charter we look at , these groups can take entirely sovereign economic decisions that spell disaster for an entire population , leading , for example , to factories closing down and to the ruin or pollution of an entire region . 
We therefore believe that a genuinely unified and democratic Europe is possible only if we can rid it of the de facto power of the large industrial and financial groups , which is the necessary condition for real and democratic control by the people over their institutions . 
 -  ( FR ) I was very happy to learn , last June , that the Cologne European Council had decided to convene a Convention ( made up of representatives of the Heads of State and Government , the European Parliament , the national parliaments and the Commission ) that would be responsible for drafting a Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
That Charter will be a vital step towards the political deepening of the European Union , under the appropriate conditions . 
It will , in fact , enable us to make up for shortcomings that have existed ever since the growth in the powers of the European Union and the European Community , with the European institutions taking decisions that affect the life of the people of Europe more and more directly . 
These people need a document to which they can refer when they take their case before the European Court of Justice . 
So we must provide for direct resort to that Court in accordance with certain procedures . 
The Charter will also help define a ' collective patrimony of values and principles and a shared system of fundamental rights which bind citizens together and underpin the Union ' s internal policies '  , a patrimony we must constantly defend against the racist and xenophobic tendencies that have , alas , not disappeared . 
As the representative of the people of the European Union , our Parliament must take a very careful look at the contents of this document . 
The people of Europe expect us to take a very bold approach here . 
Our demands are quite clear . 
The Charter must have fully binding legal status by being incorporated in the Treaty . 
To that end , the Committee on Constitutional Affairs calls on the Council to put the Charter on the ICG agenda . 
Any amendment of the Charter must come under the same procedure as its original drafting procedure , which means it would require the assent of the European Parliament . 
The European Parliament must approve any secondary legislation that might have a bearing on these fundamental rights . 
The indivisibility of these fundamental rights must be recognised by making the Charter applicable to all the European Union ' s institutions and bodies and all its policies , including those contained in the second and third pillars , in the context of the powers and functions conferred upon it by the Treaty . 
The Charter must be binding upon the Member States when applying or transposing provisions of Community law . 
Turning to the actual content of the Charter , it would seem advisable to divide up these rights into three categories . 
The Charter would enshrine the civil rights directly related to European citizenship , such as the right to vote , the right of petition , the right to appeal to the ombudsman ; the rights of the individual , i . e . all the rights protected by the various international organisations and the new rights ( bioethics , protection of personal data ) ; and the social rights , i . e . the right to a minimum wage , the right to strike , the right to unemployment benefit . 
Let me conclude by saying that this Charter must form the key component of a process leading to the drafting of a European Union constitution . 
 - I wish to state the reasons why I felt obliged to abstain on the final vote , even though , in common with other Members , I am totally in favour of the protection of fundamental freedoms and rights , and with ensuring that future social developments can be taken account of . 
Already , within the European Union , Member States have ratified and transposed into their legal systems the European Convention on Human Rights , which , although the document is nearly 50 years old , has shown itself capable of evolving in line with changing conditions as well as developing new rights . 
I believe that what is now proposed with this ' Charter ' will eventually lead to conflict between the interpretation of rights under the different documents , which could create a legal vacuum and , ironically , reduce the rights available . 
We need more time and debate on these potential conflicts . 
