 -  ( SV ) At the Council ' s meeting in Cologne , it was decided that an EU Charter of Fundamental Rights should be prepared . The Charter was to assemble and establish the rights which are to be found in the treaties and make them clearer and better known . 
We welcome such a Charter of Fundamental Rights which can also , of course , include rights under existing international conventions signed by the Member States . 
At the same time , human rights must be regarded as an international and global issue and not only as a matter for EU citizens . 
We are , however , hesitant about making such a Charter legally binding before it has been fully clarified what that would mean in practice . 
The relationship between the European Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights appears , for example , to be legally complicated and could undermine the European Convention on Human Rights . 
We believe that there are a number of questions which ought to be investigated before one particular model is opted for exclusively . 
We are therefore abstaining from voting in the final vote . 
 -  ( DA ) The Danish Liberal Party ' s five Members of the European Parliament , Bertel Haarder , Anne E . Jensen , Ole Andreasen and Niels Busk have today voted against paragraph 14a of the report , since they wish to keep the issue of the Charter off the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference . 
 - This report confirms our worst fears about the intentions of some people in relation to the Charter and that is why we have voted against it . 
We are not voting against a Charter itself , but so far the process seems to suggest a wasted opportunity to protect the citizens of Europe from the overburdening powers of the European Institutions . 
There is a gap to be filled in providing fundamental rights to citizens of the Member States concerning European regulation and legislation . 
This report turns its back on this need and thereby devalues the potential of the Charter . 
In the process of voting against , we have , of course , tried to improve the contents in the interests of the members of the nation states of Europe who might be affected , and some of the amendments which we have supported are aimed to do this . 
Conservative MEPs will continue to examine the progress of the proposed Charter through our representative on that body , Timothy Kirkhope , MEP ,  ( Yorkshire ) , and in discussions with our colleagues in the European Parliament , and we will be as positive as possible in this exercise . 
However , we do not hold out too much hope of converting this whole exercise into something which could be really positive in turning back the tide of legislative bureaucracy and over - regulation , and genuinely protecting the human rights of the citizens of Europe . 
 -  ( FR ) The discussion about the Charter of Fundamental Rights shows the lack of legitimacy and transparency in the construction of Europe , for today the laws of competition and profit are quite evidently taking precedence over human rights . 
We prefer a different approach , under which economic aspects must always come second to the satisfaction of human and environmental needs . 
The Charter should be drafted on the basis of a broad public debate among all the people , including those in the candidate states , and also involve the unions , the associations , the women ' s movements and the unemployed , in a constituent process . 
A Charter of this kind should be based on the most progressive acquis and combine social and democratic rights . 
A radical reduction in working hours which must lead to more recruitment and not flexibility ; a ban on redundancies ; requisitioning empty housing ; equality and the right to choose for women ; the right to vote and freedom of movement for immigrants : that is what should have featured in this text . 
A Charter of that kind would offer support to all those men and women who are fighting against a Europe that lays off workers or expels immigrants who do not have the proper identity papers . 
 -  ( DE ) I did not vote for the resolution , despite the fact that I am in favour of a charter of fundamental rights , because it contains demands which overshoot the mark and risk causing considerable confusion by formulating the same rights differently and , more importantly , jeopardising the universality of human rights . 
I do not take the view that this charter should contain enforceable economic and social rights . 
These are subject to the employment law of the Member States and the autonomy of the social partners . 
Those who want to overload the cart , for example , with new basic rights in the information , bio - technology and environmental protection areas , are doing little to promote the endearing concept of a Union charter containing subjectively enforceable basic rights . 
I would much rather see the European Union and , of course , all the Member States , quickly accede to the 1950 Human Rights Convention as opposed to the inevitable dispute regarding the new wording of the fundamental rights of Union citizens . 
In order to safeguard uniform case law and prevent differing interpretations , case law should continue to be the preserve of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg which , thanks to the quality of its case law on the 1950 Convention over the past 40 years , has provided a dynamic instrument which takes full account of the social , economic and ethical developments within our society . 
The discrepancies or inconsistencies which might result from various ideologically informed views can be seen in the position of the Committee on Women ' s Rights which is calling , for example , for the Charter of Fundamental Rights to contain a clause banning discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation but maintains that family rights as such do not exist . 
We need to be wary of perhaps well - meant , generous proposals if we want to prevent decision processes in the EU being crippled by a plethora of recourse proceedings which would mean more than doubling the number of judges at the European Court of Justice , and nobody would know where to enforce their basic rights any more or how long they must wait for a judgement . 
 -  ( SV ) We welcome the work which has now begun on preparing an EU Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
A Charter of this kind will have a very important symbolic value and will strengthen the confidence of our citizens in the EU and in European integration . 
The Charter of Fundamental Rights should be seen as complementing the European Convention on Human Rights , which we believe should be incorporated into the Treaty . 
The Charter should concentrate on the relationship between citizens and the European institutions . Its primary objective should be to guarantee that the Union is governed openly . 
The Charter should be legally binding through its also being incorporated into the EU ' s Treaty . The Charter must not only be a declaration , but also entail obligations of some kind on the part of the EU ' s institutions and Member States . 
We would emphasise the subsidiarity principle and the fact that the Charter should concentrate on the fundamental freedoms and rights of citizens , as presented in accordance with the Member States ' common constitutional traditions . 
We would emphasise the importance of the social dimension in the EU ' s activities but consider that social policy is mainly a question for each individual Member State to decide upon . 
 -  ( FR ) The Charter of Fundamental Rights is the latest manifestation of the drift of Community legislation towards a constitution . 
In fact , the significance of this document is obvious if it is regarded as a potential preamble to a European constitution ; conversely , it would be redundant in those Member States that already include these rights in their own constitution and legal traditions and confirm them by ratifying international texts such as the European Convention and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights . 
It is easy enough to think of ways to improve the application of the existing texts ; but the technocratic nature of the process of European integration becomes quite obvious again today from the decision to draft an additional document , which could hardly be anything but repetitive . 
Yet what worries me most is the content that is to be given to these rights . 
Indeed , at this same part - session we are discussing reports by the Committee on Citizens ' Freedoms which reflect a libertarian vision of society . 
Their aim is not so much to defend and promote human rights as to make a clean sweep of all the points of reference on which our societies are founded and replace them with an individualist jumble ' with neither lord nor master '  . 
This kind of Europe is based on a new totalitarianism in which man finds himself alone facing a Community administration that is as remote as it is impersonal , in which the intermediate structures - and in particular the most vital one of all , the family - have been gradually destroyed . 
Our society will no longer have a common destiny ; instead it will be based on a juxtaposition of ' minorities ' which each have their own rights but no common obligation . 
The conclusion I draw from these texts is that the just fight for human rights has become the ideological plaything of irresponsible and selfish individuals . 
What they are proposing to us today spells the death of the common good and , over and above that , of the very meaning of life ; for they are concerned only with human rights and have forgotten what man is first and foremost , and what his roots and aspirations are . 
 - British Labour Members fully support a Charter of Fundamental Rights which makes visible citizens ' rights across the EU . 
However , we are at a very early stage in the process of determining the Charter . 
It is therefore too early to say what should be legally binding . 
This decision will be made at a later stage as recognised by the report itself in Paragraph 6 . 
That Paragraph also states that any legally binding status recognises that Fundamental Rights are indivisible by making the Charter applicable to all the European Union ' s institutions and bodies and all its policies . 
This is a recognisable aim which British Labour Members would support . 
As the final Charter text is not available , we are supporting the Charter in principle but awaiting the final version . 
This is a complex process which needs clarity and precision at all stages to ensure that the end result is a positive and visible step forward for people in all EU countries . 
