At the same time , as we agree with many of the rights targeted for inclusion in the Charter which , by the way , are part of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic , we decided we could not vote against the report , although we do think the set of rights under consideration could and should unequivocally include the social domain , as would be ensured by approval of the amendments tabled along those lines by the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left . 
 -  ( DA ) The European Union rests upon fundamental principles of freedom , democracy and respect for human rights . 
If , however , I have misgivings about introducing a new set of human rights into the EU Treaties , this has to do with the confusing signals which would in that way be sent out and with the fear that existing instruments which are operating well would be put at risk . 
In my view , a declaration would be more appropriate . 
The European Convention on Human Rights is an excellent tool for protecting human rights in Europe . 
It involves enforcing these rights on the basis of judgements given by the Court of Human Rights , which has developed considerable expertise in this area , as well as extensive case law . 
The Convention also has the advantage of not being limited in scope to the area of the EU but of operating in relation to almost the whole of the European continent . 
At the same time , it is the European Court of Justice ' s practice to take account of the national fundamental rights applicable in the Member States . 
This practice could be affected if the EU were to obtain its own set of fundamental and human rights . 
Jackson resolution ( B5 - 0227 / 2000 ) 
My Group voted in favour of the Jackson resolution on Structural Funds in the environment because we believe in the principle of ensuring effective implementation of environmental law - in this case , the wild birds and habitats directive . 
However , we are surprised that Members of this House voted for the original proposal in paragraph 7 to cut off funds to some of our poorest regions in the EU . 
Indeed , the Commissioner , in a response to the debate , said she would not be stopping approval of key funding programmes . 
Members of the Environment Committee clearly cannot be aware of the undue delays that any non - approval of Structural Funds programmes would create , nor indeed of the new budgetary procedure that could involve not only delays but the loss of millions in funds in the case of the UK to Merseyside , South Yorkshire , the Highlands and Islands , Northern Ireland , Cornwall and the Isle of Wight . These are vital life - line funds for jobs and growth . 
I therefore welcome the fact that this House voted by a majority against cutting off resources . 
The Commissioner would , in any case , have had no legal competence to stop approval and therefore I am glad that , at the end of the day , common sense has prevailed in our vote . 
 -  ( DE ) It would appear that Community environmental protection does not have its own lobby at the Community institutions . 
There is no other explanation as to why the Commission gave way yesterday and suddenly decided to reinterpret the Structural Funds regulation . 
Having given itself real teeth last year and called in notifications of FFH areas for the joint " Natura 2000 " project which had been overdue for years , the Commission has now tripped itself up by accepting that notifications can be submitted ex - post . 
That was unnecessary in that the regulation fully covered the Commission ' s demand for FFH lists to be submitted together with the plans at the latest and per se leaves the Commission no room for manoeuvre here . 
The Structural Funds Regulation - decided unanimously last year by all the Member States - clearly states that the ex - ante evaluation is a prerequisite to the programme and the planning documents which the Member States submit to the Commission for approval . 
The Structural Funds regulation also states that this ex - ante evaluation should include an assessment of the environmental situation , especially in areas which might be influenced by Structural Fund intervention . 
The Commission is therefore duty bound to ensure that the documents notify it of potential areas subject to European nature conservation before it approves the plans . 
Submitting FFH lists once plans have been approved makes no sense from the point of view of content , because the protected areas will be reduced and adjusted to planned investments ( rather than representing the framework , as required under the regulation ) , nor does it make any legal sense from a legal point of view because then , of course , exactly what the Commission wished to avoid will happen , i . e . planning conflicts will result in long - winded disputes . 
The Commission is deluding itself if it thinks that it can use Article 39 to recoup what it has failed to obtain during ex - ante evaluation . 
How can the Commission be credible vis - à - vis the European citizens if it is unable to implement its own requirements ? 
By giving in , the Commission has lost the confidence of many who see sustainable development as a chance for the next generation . 
 -  ( FR ) The French members of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group are very concerned with preserving the natural heritage in general and the environmentally sensitive areas in particular . 
We share the desire to protect an environment which it is our duty to pass on intact to our children . 
That is a laudable and necessary ambition . 
Yet the Commission , ever faithful to its nature and its habits , cannot stop taking every opportunity to overwhelm the states and their citizens with new directives and pernickety little rules , which often bear little relation to real local conditions . 
The only result of this kind of overload is to paralyse the economic players a little more each day and to hold back freedom of enterprise . 
This happened , for instance , with the CTEs which are designed to turn our farmers into environmental officers , rewarded not by the fruit of their labours but by subsidies paid in return for their submission to the Gosplan of Brussels . 
We therefore categorically reject Mrs Jackson ' s proposal to link payments from the Structural Funds to the transposing by Member States of EU environmental legislation . 
That would be a very dangerous mixture of unrelated things and would pave the way to the generalised practice of financial blackmail , a blackmail that is all the more inadmissible in that , as we must remember , the money from the Structural Funds remains above all the product of the contributions the Member States pay into the EU budget . 
Malmström report ( A5 - 0060 / 2000 ) 
Mr President , I would like , as a matter of priority , to thank Parliament for lending its support to aid for Mongolia . 
I hope this will lead to a much more proactive approach on the part of the Commission , as I have not seen a sign of this yet . 
It is unacceptable for the Commission only to take a lukewarm interest in a country which probably has no mineral resources , which , in terms of human rights , is doing a relatively good job in the region , which is small and very much agriculture - based . 
It may not occupy centre stage but is very needy despite this . 
This Parliament has noticed this and offered its support , and I urge the Commission to take this message extremely seriously and to grant this aid . 
While agreeing with some of the concrete concerns expressed in the report about , in particular , women ' s rights , and while approving some amendments which point the way to progress , we do not intend to support the European Union ' s claim that ' respect for , and promotion of , human rights and fundamental freedoms . . . constitute fundamental objectives of EU foreign policy '  . 
Within the European Union , one of the fundamental rights of man , the right to make an adequate living from his labour , is being trampled underfoot for nearly 20 million men and women . 
A fairly substantial proportion of immigrant workers , those regarded as not having the proper papers , is being deprived of any legal existence . 
All the while , outside the European Union , several of its Member States , among the most powerful of them , are supporting , arming and financing vile dictatorships , especially in their former colonial empire . 
And what about that manifestation of respect for human rights that took the form , for several weeks , of bombing Kosovo and Serbia ? 
Under these circumstances , we are abstaining from the vote on this report . 
 -  ( FR ) In this joint debate on human rights , the report under consideration here analyses the instruments available to the Union to promote these rights in the world and their concrete application between 1 June 1998 and 30 June 1999 . 
As you know , the EU ' s international action to promote and protect human rights is based on several instruments , including the CFSP and development cooperation . 
With the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam , the European Union has become more visible on the international stage thanks to the appointment of a CFSP High Representative , in the person of Javier Solana . 
The Treaty of Amsterdam has made respect for human rights one of the main objectives of the EU ' s common foreign and security policy . 
The European Union has many instruments available in this field . 
There are the common strategies ( a new instrument created since the Treaty of Amsterdam and designed to enhance the overall coherence of EU action at international level ) , the common positions ( which define the EU ' s approach to a particular matter ) and the common actions ( which relate to certain specific situations and involve immediate reactions , on the model of humanitarian aid ) . 
There are also specific and horizontal actions relating to a given policy . They include , in particular , the fight to abolish the death penalty . 
Finally , what is known as the ' human rights ' clause , which has been incorporated into most cooperation and development agreements with third countries since the 1990s , enables the EU to keep up the pressure , in respect of human rights , on the countries with which it is linked . 
This clause does not change the fundamental nature of these agreements but does enable both parties to reaffirm respect for certain common values and principles as the precondition for any form of cooperation , economic or other . 
Yet the rapporteur feels that the current European human rights policy is fragmented and needs to be replaced by a coherent common strategy marked by closer interinstitutional cooperation . 
Obviously I agree with that . 
I think initiatives such as establishing an advisory group to discuss the strategic aspects of human rights activities , comprising representatives of the EU institutions and the Member States , together with human rights specialists , would lead to greater coherence and therefore effectiveness . 
In the same context , the proposals that the EU should develop its own indicators to gauge respect for human rights , that a special European Parliament envoy should be nominated for prisoners of conscience and that a human rights website should be launched on the Europarl site on the Internet , are well worth considering . 
The report also emphasises that the EU strategy must give priority to systematically abolishing the discrimination suffered by women . 
I want to express my unconditional support for that demand ! 
 - The European Parliamentary Labour Party voted against Amendment No 7 because we do not feel that a reference to the supposed ' Echelon ' network is appropriate to this report . 
Allegations that such an ' Echelon network ' exists are based on hearsay and circumstantial evidence . 
Furthermore , the democratic oversight of national intelligence services is , in any case , primarily a matter for national parliaments . 
The United Kingdom has one of the most effective systems of democratic oversight , both political and judicial , of its intelligence services in the world . 
Political oversight is exercised by a House of Commons committee , which has full access to documentation . 
Moreover , the intelligence operations of third countries , including the United States , operating in cooperation with British intelligence services within the United Kingdom , are also subject to the same democratic oversight . 
 - British Conservatives are in the forefront of those seeking to improve human rights in many parts of the world . 
While there is much in the Malmström resolution that we can support , unfortunately there are significant elements that have been included which we find unacceptable . 
For example , we do not share the enthusiasm for an EU Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
We are sceptical about demands for substantial increases in expenditure and bureaucratic activity and in the role of EC - funded NGOs . 
We are concerned that it is minority differences that are stimulated , with little emphasis on integration . 
We are concerned at the extension of the concept of human rights to include , for example , domestic violence , which is properly a matter to be handled under other legal instruments . 
We are opposed to the introduction of sweeping new categories of eligibility for asylum , which would be open to abuse . 
Many of us do not support the abolition of capital punishment in principle . 
And we are suspicious about proposals to impose further codes of conduct on business . 
While we value the role of the EU in supporting human rights , we believe that human rights regulation and legislation , as in so many areas dealing with the relationship between the citizen and the state , is a matter for national governments , and we do not welcome an extension of EU intervention in this area . 
It is for these reasons that British Conservatives have voted against the Malmström resolution . 
Haarder report ( A5 - 0050 / 2000 ) 
Mr President , I would have liked to have voted for the Haarder report , in spite of certain passages in it , and certain statements , including some to the House , to the effect that there are no rights for the family and that to grant special rights to the family would be a discriminatory , not to say racist , measure . 
The supporters of that theory should get their act together . 
If there are no specific family rights as such - as the Committee on Women ' s Rights decided , very much against my wishes - then such rights do not exist for the other heterosexual or same - sex communities either and the section on " Lifestyles and types of relationship " has no place in this report . 
I myself was lucky enough to grow up in an entirely normal family , consisting of a mother and a father who were not divorced , and I still regard this model of a happy and united family as one of the foundations of our society . 
It always deserves to be recognised and to enjoy a special status , despite what some people might feel ; but , given the result of the votes on the amendments , in the end I really could not vote for this report , in particular because paragraph 18 was adopted . 
Mr President , I should like to follow on from what Mrs Lulling has just said . 
I should like to say that Mr Haarder has made an exemplary effort to bring about a consensus . 
As a result , his report was far better than all the previous reports . 
However , I and a majority in my Group voted against the report because points 52 - 56 contain quite controversial social policy requirements which may well be supported by the left wing of this House but which have nothing to do with human rights . 
The German constitution offers marriage and the family special protection and that has nothing to do with the violation of human rights . 
On the contrary , it is a guarantee of human rights . 
Marriage and the family form the basis for human rights , as does the right to life . 
I therefore believe that these points should have been left out of the human rights report . 
If they had , the House would have voted unanimously in favour of this human rights report because , apart from that , Mr Haarder has presented an exemplary piece of work . 
Mr President , I note with some surprise that I am bringing up the rear , despite having been the first to request the floor in writing . 
Secondly , I should also like to note that , broadly speaking , my Group supports the Haarder report and expressly highlights the fact that there was excellent cooperation with the rapporteur . 
At last we have before us a report which duly deals with the subject , the stated period and enforceable rights . 
Hence our support in principle . 
We voted against it , however , because two points were accepted by the majority of the House ; I refer to points 53 and 54 , which tackle the issue of the family and the excessive support or special support for all alternative types of partnership . 
We in the European People ' s Party see the family as a value per se , as the cornerstone of society , if you like , as the heart of society , and cannot accept that alternative life styles should be specially fostered and set above the family , which we see as the nucleus of our society . 
However , with these points and the majority decision by Parliament , we now have a situation in points 53 and 54 in which alternative lifestyles enjoy special favour and are placed above the family , as a result of which we find it impossible to vote for the report as a whole . 
Mr President , I just wanted to add to what Mr Pirker has said by pointing out that I voted in favour of point 42 of the Haarder report despite the fact that it contains an error because Austria is named in connection with freedom of movement . 
The executive committee of the Nationalrat ( National Assembly ) has passed a resolution unanimously adopting the motion for the executive committee to reach an agreement under paragraph 2 of the Law of 3 April 1919 on the resolution by the Federal government of 26 March 1996 and to consider the declarations of renunciation by Felix Habsburg - Lothringen and Karl Ludwig Habsburg - Lothringen as adequate , so that nothing now stands in the way of their being issued with passports which will allow them to enter Austria . 
I am therefore able to tell the House that both Felix Habsburg - Lothringen and Karl Ludwig Habsburg - Lothringen have valid passports without any form of restriction . 
Neither signed the declarations of renunciation required by the constitutional office , because they have distanced themselves from the house of Habsburg ; instead they merely entered the following statement on their passport applications :  " In order to avoid misunderstandings , let it be noted in this connection that I , the applicant , have not and do not question the republican form of government of Austria nor have I ever considered making any manner of claim to sovereignty "  . 
The call on Austria to take action in relation to freedom of movement is therefore devoid of any substance . 
 -  ( FR ) In adopting the Haarder report on human rights in the European Union , the European Parliament has just committed one of those aberrations that are so common they must be part of its nature . 
Among others , it is calling for equal rights of all kinds between same - sex couples and the traditional family , together with lowering the age of consent for same - sex relations . 
May I just remind you that Article 16 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that " the family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entitled to protection by society and the State "  . 
That same article defines the family in terms of the marriage between a man and a woman . 
The International Covenant on Economic , Social and Cultural Rights repeats the same idea by declaring , in Article 10 , that " The widest possible protection and assistance should be accorded to the family , which is the natural and fundamental group unit of society "  . 
The reason why the traditional family is entitled to this state protection is because it provides a service without price : the renewal of the generations , the perpetuation of society , the education of children and the transmission of values . 
That service is a very good reason for granting the family special advantages , reserved to it alone . 
By ignoring that vital law , the Haarder report shows that in this respect , as in many others , the European instruments go against not only the nations but also against society itself . 
 -  ( DA ) We support the general recommendations in the report to the Member States regarding compliance with the international conventions on human rights . 
We also share the concerns referred to in the report about the situation in certain countries as regards the rights , for example , of asylum seekers , women and children and in connection with minority languages . However , we oppose the annual report on human rights being used to promote further integration within the EU . 
We are not in favour of the new institutional arrangements proposed in the report or in favour of the proposal that the EU should establish a common legal framework and a common policy on refugees and asylum seekers . 
We believe that human rights problems should be combated locally and by means of the international human rights institutions and forums which already exist and which are designed for this purpose , for example , the UN and the Council of Europe . 
Nor do we support the view that the EU should draw up a new , legally binding EU Charter of Fundamental Rights . Rather , we are of the opinion that such a Charter would create conflicts in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights . 
An EU Charter of Fundamental Rights would not in itself help improve the human situation , either at European or international level . 
We have , however , chosen to vote in favour of the report in spite of what I have just said , for we think it is extremely important to fight for improved human rights in Europe . 
 - Concerning the statement in Amendment No 32 by Mr Rack , Mrs Schleicher , Mrs Cederschiöld and Mr Méndez de Vigo , on behalf of the EPP - ED Group , to the Duff / Voggenhuber report on an EU Charter for Fundamental Rights , our Group questions whether , under the present circumstances , it is still necessary for the Union to become a party to the ECHR . 
This is an issue which requires deeper analysis . 
Overlapping and conflicts between the Court of Justice of the European Communities and the European Court of Human Rights should , in any event , be avoided . 
 - I believe that this is a good report and deserves support . 
However , problems arise in the detail of paragraphs 52 , 53 , 54 and 56 . I voted for these paragraphs because I agree with the objectives of the rapporteur . 
I would , however , like to ensure that my voting intentions are not misinterpreted . 
In relation to paragraph 52 I support the right of individual conscience . 
In stating this principle I would also like to make it absolutely clear that this in no way implies that I personally support abortion . 
With regard to paragraphs 53 , 54 and 56 I oppose discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation . 
I would , however , add a few caveats . 
Firstly , I do not support the right of gay couples to adopt . 
Secondly , I do not support the lowering of the age of consent below 18 years of age . 
With these clarifications entered for the record I am happy to vote for Mr Haarder ' s report . 
 - On balance , this is an excellent report with the exception of paragraphs 52 to 56 . 
This section is poorly drafted and ambiguous . It deals with issues that are firmly in the competence of each Member State , and should so remain . 
