 -  ( FR ) I want to congratulate our rapporteur , Mr Haarder , on the quality of his report on respect for human rights in the European Union . I support the general philosophy underlying the document , which aims to consolidate European policy with regard to civil and political rights , but also to the economic , social and cultural rights of EU residents . 
Yet I would also like to draw my colleagues ' attention to two requests made in the report , which I find problematic . 
Paragraph 19 of the report , concerning the protection of national minorities , and paragraph 20 , calling for the ratification of the Charter for Regional and Minority Languages , pose real problems . 
We certainly understand the spirit of the rapporteur ' s observations on the need to protect national minorities : it sends out a strong message to some of the candidate countries , especially the Eastern European ones , whose nationals do not all enjoy fundamental rights . 
Parliament firmly rejects abuses of fundamental freedoms throughout Europe , as the Haarder report emphasises . 
But we regret that it alludes to the rights of ' national minorities '  , an expression that is far more restrictive than the universal concept of ' human rights '  . 
Furthermore , we support the idea of an indivisible political community , within which ethnic origin is not eclipsed but regarded as being of secondary importance . 
The Republic cannot recognise specific ' minorities ' or ' communities '  : in its view there are only autonomous and free citizens with equal rights . 
In view of our convictions we must also express strong reservations about paragraph 20 of the report , which refers to the Charter for Regional and Minority Languages . 
Everyone is free to use one or several languages of his or her choice in addition to the language of the Republic and everyone has the right to learn them at school . 
But the fact remains that this is a choice and not an obligation . 
The Charter is too vague in this respect , which entails the risk of encouraging the formation of regional communities ; that would pose a threat to the unity of the Republic but also , in the long run , to the cohesion of the Union . 
I will , nevertheless , vote for Mr Haarder ' s report because of its quality and its underlying philosophy . 
 - Obviously , we have no objection to a report on human rights being presented to the European Parliament but as all Member States of the European Union are signatories to the European Convention on Human Rights and all citizens are therefore ( even if indirectly ) able to pursue cases of breach of these human rights to a Court of final arbitration , what concerns us is the way in which this report seems to go well beyond the important principles enshrined by the United Nations and the European Court of Human Rights . 
It is not the primary function of this parliament to produce extensive and controversial additions to current legislation and extra channels of redress on an assumption that these should automatically be acceptable simply because they have been proposed . 
All of us want human rights to be uppermost in the minds of national and European legislators . 
In most cases they are . 
We do not need this report either to remind us of them or to attempt to push the agenda into areas which are likely to be of great controversy and are likely to achieve counterproductive results instead of an enhancement of human rights already determined . 
 -  ( EL ) Once more , the hypocrisy of the European Union is evident both in the state of , and respect for , human rights within the Union and in its international policy on these matters . 
We are particularly worried by the proposals for greater consideration to be given to human rights in the Union ' s foreign policy , not because we underestimate their importance or the need to promote and safeguard them but because experience shows that they are being used selectively . 
The European Union turns a blind eye to situations in which human rights are being savagely violated in order to protect its imperialistic interests . 
Its attitude towards the Turkish regime is a blatant example . 
Elsewhere , the particularly sensitive issue of human rights is being used as an excuse for intervention , even military intervention , so as to impose specific policies and particular courses of action . 
The recent and continuing invasions in Kosovo , using the rights of minorities as a pretext , and the unbelievable demands being made on Yugoslavia are a typical example of how military intervention is being advanced as a general principle of international law at the expense of the principle of national sovereignty . 
The very policy which the EU and its Member States are pursuing from within is leading to human rights being subverted and becoming dead letter . 
The effects of this policy are already visible in the rise of extremist , fascist powers and racist perceptions , and not just in Austria . 
The report on combating racism does not demonstrate that the necessary conclusions have been reached . 
We therefore condemn the EU ' s attempts to use human rights as a pretext in order to reinforce its anti - grass roots and anti - democratic nature and intervene further to the detriment of the people . 
We call on the people to be vigilant and to stop their self - proclaimed saviours trampling on their rights . 
We also urge them to fight for solutions which will guarantee that their rights are promoted and flourish . 
For these reasons , the three Members of the European Parliament of the Greek Communist Party will abstain from voting . 
 -  ( FR ) I want to draw a parallel between the reports by Mrs Ludford and Mr Haarder and the report by Messrs Duff and Voggenhuber . 
The European Parliament is proposing to take part in drafting a European Charter of Fundamental Rights . 
And why not ? 
Nonetheless , we cannot see how this additional document can contribute to the fight for human rights , except by injecting a little more legal confusion . 
And , above all , what are we to think of our House ' s concept of these rights ? 
We can get an initial sketchy idea from reading the Ludford and Haarder reports : this is a project for a libertarian society , based on rights without obligations , on freedom without responsibilities . 
Freedom is not something that can be decreed . 
But those who are building Europe seem unaware of that fact : they not only want to bring happiness to the people ex nihilo , regardless of their differences and their aspirations , but , on top of that , they want to establish a society without points of reference , without distinction between what can and cannot be done , a society that believes in hedonism or the culture of death . 
Man cannot be regarded as an entity independent of those around him and concerned solely with his immediate well - being . 
Certainly he has rights , including , first and foremost the , right which , paradoxically , he is often refused , the right to life , which must be defended and promoted ; but you appear to have forgotten that the human being needs the objective limits necessary to all life in society to be established . 
The human being not only needs to be given the means to live , but also , and above all , he needs the reasons to live . 
An additional charter , European or not , will certainly not provide them . 
 -  ( NL ) We have consented to the Haarder report but would like to make the following observations regarding paragraphs 19 and 20 of the draft report . 
Paragraph 19 urges Belgium to sign the Convention for national minorities . 
Flanders does not seek to prevent Belgium from ratifying this Convention for national minorities , but it would like to add the proviso that this should be done outside the Belgian constitutional context . 
In the Belgian federation , the federal states are equal pursuant to the rules in the constitution . 
Not one of them constitutes an actual minority . 
Because the Convention does not clearly define the term " national minority "  , according to Flanders , it does not apply to the periphery . For Flanders ,  " national minority " in such a context can only refer to a minority which has been established within a certain area for centuries , whilst the French - speakers only moved to the periphery some three centuries ago and have since refused to integrate , which is to be expected in the normal course of events ( compare this with the Flemish migration to Wallonia and their perfectly integrated descendants ) . 
Moreover , French - speakers living in the periphery , which boasts the language facilities , can count on protection , which is mostly unavailable to real minorities . 
So , whoever tries to change the situation in the Brussels periphery using this convention will implicitly put the future of the Belgian constitutional equilibrium at risk and illustrate once again that a European lack of insight into our federal system can lead one to think that we would be better off as the separate Member States of Flanders and Wallonia , rather than as a federal Member State of Belgium . 
Without a doubt , French - speaking Belgian MEPs will again use this vote to play political games in Belgium . 
We do not wish to participate in this and would emphatically disassociate ourselves from this kind of practice . 
Moreover , we regret that in paragraph 5 of the Ludford report , the same text was adopted for racism and xenophobia . 
In the same light , Flanders would like to make it clear that the Charter for Regional and Minority Languages , as referred to in paragraph 20 of the Haarder report , does not pertain to French in the periphery but , for example , to the Limburg dialect ( recognised in the application of this Charter in the Netherlands ) or to the Arel German dialect in the Province of Luxembourg . 
 -  ( IT ) Quite apart from the approval or rejection of amendments and the removal or amendment of paragraphs , we were disgusted to find in an annual report of the European Parliament on such a sensitive and urgent matter as human rights , the recommendation " not to imprison child abusers , except as a last resort "  , and a call for the Member States to " lower the age - of - consent for homosexual relations "  . 
We must fight against pornography , against increasingly widespread child abuse , against male and female prostitution and against sex tourism , which inevitably leads to suffering on the part of children . 
We must fight against discrimination and psychological and other forms of abuse in the spheres of work , information , politics and the family , which is again at the centre of the debate at a time when children are being transformed into mere objects to satisfy the egotism of those who , having relinquished all other values , are attempting to satisfy their egos and their desire to possess with " technological " motherhood or fatherhood . 
We utterly reject a resolution which cancels out its positive points with such abominations , and we are sounding the alarm bells in dismay . If you continue along this path , you will destroy the European Union and go against the wishes of the great majority of its citizens . 
 -  ( FR ) I want to explain the reasons underlying my rejection of the annual report on respect for human rights in the European Union . 
Two of the provisions in that text call on a number of countries , including France , to ratify the European Framework Convention for the protection of national minorities and the European Charter for Regional and Minority Languages without delay . 
First of all , I really must dispel a misunderstanding that is tainting the whole debate about regional languages ; the purpose is certainly not to forbid whomsoever it be from speaking , teaching or promoting a minority or regional language of whatever kind . 
Insofar as learning or using these languages remains a personal choice , I , for my part , am in favour of any measure to promote their conservation and transmission , since they form part of the cultural heritage of the nations . 
I have voted against the Haarder report because , in calling for the ratification of the European Framework Convention for the protection of national minorities and the European Charter for Regional and Minority Languages , it is seeking to promote a concept of European integration that is based on a vision to which I cannot subscribe . 
According to that concept , the individual has particular rights based on his membership of a territorial , ethnic or religious entity , while the community constitutes the key means of mediating between the individual and the right he is claiming . 
Whilst , at first sight , recognition of the community may seem a factor that protects the integration of minorities , in fact , however , it is a strong factor of social segregation and regression ( you need only think of the situation of young Turkish or Maghreb girls , who are excluded from the emancipating benefits of ethnically mixed schooling , who are held back by archaic rules on the status of women ) . 
Similarly , while recognition of a special status for these communities may seem to protect the weakest and most destitute , on the contrary , it in fact produces a social compartmentalisation which the triumphant march of liberalism can turn to its advantage . 
Moreover , while it is true that enlargement of the European Union means we must take account of the special situation of certain national minorities , nonetheless the community - based solution offers no future prospects whatsoever for population groups who are under threat or oppressed . 
On the contrary , recent history has shown how the exacerbation of the sense of belonging to a particular community can trigger the resurgence of ancient ethnic disputes and lead to fratricidal conflicts . 
Rather than this concept , I prefer the universalist vision of a republican Europe in which each individual as such fully and actively exercises his rights and freedoms . 
I prefer a Europe which offers a chance of integration to all those who subscribe to its common values , whether they proclaim their religious identity or practise no religion , whether they speak the language of their ancestors or have chosen to transcend their roots . 
That Europe affirms the primacy of a principle not found in the Haarder report , the secular principle , which contains and synthesises all the other freedoms : right to respect for private life , freedom of conscience and religion , freedom of expression and association . 
The Republic of Europe remains to be built : let us hope that the Charter of Fundamental Rights , which is still at the drafting stage , will constitute the first act and the cornerstone of that Europe . 
For the same reasons , I abstained on the report on the fight against racism and xenophobia in the European Union . 
 . 
 ( SV ) It is incompatible with the subsidiarity principle and proximity principle that the 626 Members of the European Parliament should pronounce upon what vision of the family and what legislation affecting the family the 15 Member States and the twelve candidate states ' national parliaments should arrive at . 
In solemn speeches and addresses , such as that given this week in the European Parliament by the Prime Minister of the country currently holding the presidency of the Union , Portugal , the wealth of Europe ' s different cultures , traditions , languages and national identities has been emphasised time after time . 
To then state that the family ' s - and , therefore indirectly , children ' s - legal position should be standardised throughout Europe , as proposed in paragraphs 53 and 54 of the present resolution , constitutes a basic offence against the national right to legislate and against the EU ' s own subsidiarity principle , as formulated in the Treaties of Maastricht and Amsterdam . 
In our capacity as Swedish Christian Democrats , we shall , of course , be continuing our work in the Swedish Parliament aimed at establishing a basic legal position where the family and marriage between men and women are concerned . 
This is with a view to making our country ' s legislation more friendly to families and children and out of an active desire to support stable and long - term parental relationships which can meet children ' s needs for security , care and socialisation . 
 -  ( FR ) The annual report on respect for human rights in the European Union is usually taken as an opportunity to display a rather pathetic excess of political correctness . 
The champions of the libertarian ideology never miss the chance to list a whole series of demands , each more ludicrous than the next , all wrapped up in proper sentiments . 
Perhaps that is what this whole exercise demands . 
Alas , the 2000 vintage still goes along with this curious tradition . 
Nothing has been left out , from the right of non - EU nationals to vote and stand in municipal and European elections , to guaranteeing ' same - sex couples rights equal to those enjoyed by traditional couples and families '  , to the standardisation of the procedure governing the right of asylum within the European Union , all inspired by the eternal resolve to glean new powers for Brussels . 
As a member of the Committee on Women ' s Rights , I shall confine myself to emphasising the equality between men and women on the one hand , and the importance of the family on the other . 
While the persistence of discrimination between men and women , with regard to pay for example , is unacceptable , to set men against women , as some feminist organisations do , would be sterile and put social cohesion at risk . 
We therefore categorically reject any policy of quotas or positive discrimination , those pet themes of political correctness . 
As we put it in Brussels on 1 March , that kind of policy would reflect a profound contempt for women : women should gain access to political or administrative posts not through the mechanical workings of some form of quota but through the recognition of their merits and abilities . 
Women have a specific role to play in society : they have a vital family role to play in the procreation of the new generations that are essential to the survival of society , a role to play in educating the young ; they have an economic role , as mother of the family , but also a role within family enterprises ( family holdings , businesses , SMEs ) . 
This role has been downgraded for far too long , although it is a key role . 
On the one hand , that implies giving the wives of self - employed workers who play a part in the family business a stable status and , on the other hand , recognising the economic and social role of the mother . 
It also implies enabling women to reconcile family life with working life , giving all women the chance to make a genuine choice : how many women have been forced by economic constraints only to have two children when they would have liked three ? 
How many of them have been forced to devote more time to their professional life than they would have wished ? 
That kind of policy would mean giving the family its due place . 
But this report is an extremely dangerous all - out attack on the family . 
It calls for equal rights for same - sex couples and traditional couples and families , forgetting the vital role the family plays in social cohesion . 
Let us make no mistake : everyone leads the private life they want ; there can be no question of secret policing . 
However , same - sex couples as such are of no use to society , they are sterile and can only lead to a sterile society ; so society does not have to recognise them and grant them rights : it should ignore them . 
The family , on the contrary , is the community on which society is based and that ensures its stability . 
Its utility resides in the fact that it provides the most stable framework possible for creating new generations , for their education , and therefore for the continuity of mankind . 
Even now , with the strong backing of certain European resolutions and under pressure from action groups , there are some who are preparing to recognise the right of same - sex couples to adopt children . 
Just imagine the psychological future of children with two fathers and no mother , or two mothers and no father ! 
If it is to fulfil its potential , a child needs a father and a mother , a stable family . 
In face of the culture of death , it is our duty to stand up for the culture of life . 
We believe in an exalted idea of the dignity of man , whoever he may be , without discrimination , from the moment of conception to his natural death . 
That means breaking with the materialistic and individualistic view of man and believing that there is something sacred in each individual , which is the foundation of human dignity . 
Only then can we effectively and consistently ban human cloning or discrimination on the basis of genetic inheritance , a discrimination suffered far too often by , for instance , Down ' s syndrome babies , in the name of what seem to be the best of intentions . 
It is only at that price that we can reject the unacceptable hypocrisy of chatting peacefully about human rights while closing our eyes to an economic and commercial system which , in the name of the dogma of free trade , encourages child exploitation in many third world countries . 
And then we will be able to move away from a policy of minorities , the legacy of an individualist thinking that is a threat to a peaceful society , away from an ideology of minorities that is a new expression of the class war , that disregards the profound unity of the human family and seeks to establish superficial divisions based on race , sexual mores , age or ethnicity and demand specific rights for each of them . 
Man is neither a social security number nor a pawn on a social and economic chessboard to be manipulated at will and discarded when no longer of use . 
He is worth much more than that : every man is a sacred history . 
 -  ( NL ) The SP MEPs Anne Van Lancker and Kathleen Van Brempt have abstained from the vote on paragraphs 19 and 20 of the resolution on respect for human rights in the European Union , in which Belgium is urged to ratify the 1995 European Framework Convention for the protection of national minorities and the 1998 European Charter for Regional and Minority Languages . 
 " We fully subscribe to the international agreements to protect minorities and minority languages . However , we cannot tolerate international agreements of this kind being used by certain groups in Belgium to their advantage in order to undermine the language legislation which guarantees the tolerant co - existence of the three language communities "  . 
That concludes the explanations of vote . 
 ( The sitting was adjourned at 2 . 11 p . m . and resumed at 3 p . m . ) 
Topical and urgent debate
The next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance . 
Western Sahara
The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions : 
B5 - 0246 / 2000 by Mrs González Álvarez and others on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left ; 
B5 - 0253 / 2000 by Mr Sánchez García and others on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party ; 
B5 - 0262 / 2000 by Mr Carnero González and others on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists ; 
B5 - 0272 / 2000 by Mrs Schröder and others on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance ; 
B5 - 0278 / 2000 by Mr Salafranca Sánchez Neyra and others on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats
on the Western Sahara . 
Mr President , this Parliament has long been calling for compliance with the United Nations resolutions and for the European Union , that is the Commission and the Council , to become more deeply involved in solving the Sahrawi problem . 
Although we are going to vote in favour of this resolution - which I regard as a good consensus resolution , calling for the obvious once again - I would perhaps have worded certain points differently . I refer to the statement that both parties , Morocco and Western Sahara , must make equal efforts to resolve the conflict . 
We believe there should be more emphasis on asking Morocco to concentrate its political will on resolving the conflict , because the Sahrawis have demonstrated time and again that they want it finally resolved . 
They have released prisoners and accepted the United Nations rulings on eligible voters . 
It is the Moroccan Government that has been putting obstacles in the way of resolving the conflict . 
The latest obstacle to delay this referendum indefinitely has been the introduction of 76 000 appeals to the United Nations from possible voters in the referendum on Western Sahara . 
If obstacles continue to be put in the way , we may be responsible for a more serious conflict . 
Some people are shocked that the Sahrawi people are now saying they are left with no alternative but to take up arms again . 
I am not shocked . I can understand it . 
It is a solution nobody wants , of course , but it is one we are forcing them into . 
Mr President , the European Union - and Parliament within it , of course - must strive to avoid a new conflict in an area which is already troubled enough . 
We do not want Western Sahara to become another East Timor , Mr President , 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , there are circumstances which make Western Sahara a highly topical issue and they are relevant this evening . 
The first is the United Nations Security Council ' s urgent resolution of 29 February , which agreed to extend the MINURSO mandate to the end of May . Secondly , there is the food crisis facing the Sahrawi refugees in the desert camps . 
Mention must be made of serious incidents which have recently occurred in the occupied territories of Western Sahara , where pro - referendum demonstrations have been suppressed by the Moroccan authorities . 
Mention must also be made of the visit the Maghreb Delegation will be making to Morocco next week and the King of Morocco ' s favourable attitude to the European Parliament visiting the territory of Western Sahara for the first time . 
The instability that could become endemic in this part of Africa could affect some of the outermost Community regions , like my region , the Canary Islands . 
Our citizens want a peaceful solution to the conflict in Western Sahara and they want the Sahrawi people to hold the referendum under conditions of freedom , transparency and equality . 
And finally , one of the objectives of the European Union ' s common foreign and security policy is the maintenance of peace and the strengthening of international security . 
And here the High Representative for the CFSP , Mr Solana , ought to play a more active role in achieving adequate guarantees for the Sahrawi people through an active presence and direct participation in the stages of the peace process and the referendum . 
That is why we support the motion for a resolution . 
Mr President , first we must express our concern for the Sahrawi people , many of whom have experienced long years of exile and suffering . 
Solving their problem means respecting the deadlines for holding the referendum that has been postponed again and again . 
If there were to be another postponement it would seriously aggravate the problem . 
Stability , security and peace in the Maghreb region depend on this referendum taking place . 
For the referendum to lead to the fulfilment of those objectives , however , the preparatory work must be done with great care , especially the correct compilation of the full electoral roll , which has still not been achieved , and strict fulfilment of the criteria governing its compilation must be insisted on . 
The European Union must fully assume its role of mediator in this process , which is important not just for the region itself , but also for the whole of Europe , and especially for certain countries . 
It must carry out that role by , amongst other things , supporting the decisions of the United Nations and ensuring that the process reaches a conclusion in total transparency and with maximum guarantees , complete probity and respect for democracy . 
Mr President , after the vote in East Timor , the process of self - determination in Western Sahara is the last one outstanding in the world . But it is a process of self - determination which grows more complicated by the day , as highlighted last week by news of the repression taking place in the occupied territories of Western Sahara . 
On the proper conclusion of this process of self - determination depend the stability , peace and indeed the economic integration and development of the whole Maghreb . 
I would even say that the transition to full democracy apparently under way in the Kingdom of Morocco also depends on it . 
From our point of view , the culmination of the process of self - determination in Western Sahara lies in the application of the peace plan from the United Nations and the Organisation for African Unity . 
And the core of that peace plan is precisely the holding of a free and fair referendum on self - determination , in which voters can make their choice without any kind of pressure . 
In spite of the efforts of the United Nations , in spite of MINURSO , in spite of the progress that has been made in compiling the electoral roll , the referendum keeps being postponed virtually sine die . 
Of course , the delay of the referendum is essentially the responsibility of one of the parties , which is failing to finalise acceptance of the terms under which the said referendum is to take place . 
For that to happen , for self - determination to become a reality in Western Sahara in the short term , the available instruments must be used : the Houston Agreements and the efforts of James Baker . Direct dialogue between the parties is essential . 
The Kingdom of Morocco and the Polisario Front must restore the direct dialogue which existed at the end of the 1980 ' s and which led to the Houston Agreements . 
The European Union should make it a priority to help keep that process going , to help it succeed . 
Regrettably , the Union has not acted in the most appropriate way up to now . 
Much has been said , but little has actually been done . 
The most important point in the resolution we are going to adopt here today is the European Parliament ' s call to the Council to take common action , as provided for in the Treaty on European Union , on Western Sahara . 
And that means statements and instruments , making all the instruments we have at our disposal available to help bring this process of self - determination to a satisfactory conclusion , assist Mr Baker , support the United Nations , call on the parties to respect the terms of the international resolutions and set in motion essential humanitarian cooperation . 
That is how we can contribute to achieving a priority objective : peace in the Maghreb . 
Self - determination in Western Sahara is essential for that . 
Mr President , I should like on behalf of my Group to voice our serious concern at the current situation in the Western Sahara to the European Parliament and , more importantly , the Commission and the Council . 
The constant postponement of the referendum on the future of the Western Sahara is unacceptable . 
A state of emergency reins in the occupied areas . 
At least 56 people have been arrested , including 27 women , for fighting for the right to self - determination . 
We call on the government of Morocco to stop repression , lift the state of emergency and permit freedom of expression . 
We call on the Council of the EU to vote on joint action which will enable the peace plan to be duly implemented without delay . 
The previous involvement of the personal envoy of the UN Secretary General , Mr James Baker , should be used for further mediation work in a bid to implement UN Security Council Resolution No 1292 / 2000 . 
We urge the Commission of the EU to ensure immediately that the people in the refugee camps have a secure supply of food . 
The supply situation has deteriorated dramatically . 
All the stocks of basic foodstuffs have been used up . 
According to information from various NGOs , food has been rationed since December and various countries have withdrawn bilateral aid . 
The World Food Programme relies on the EU ; as a result , ECHO must now provide 80 % of the food aid originally intended as supplementary aid . 
The Council and the Commission must therefore immediately exert pressure on the UN to improve the food situation . 
The Commission must set up a financial safety fund for the next three months . 
Is it right that , due to staff problems at ECHO and the lack of a new global plan , no food aid is being supplied at present ? 
Anything approved today will not be implemented until next August at the earliest , but people cannot be left without aid for such a long period unless they are supposed to starve to death . 
We had a similarly dramatic situation a year ago in East Timor . 
A referendum was held . 
A state of emergency followed . 
Only then did international aid react ; no preventative action was taken in order to avoid conflict . 
That is why we call on the Commission and the Council to act before it is too late . 
Mr President , to begin with , I want to agree with most of what has been said in this regard , especially by my colleague , Mrs González Álvarez . 
I also want to take the opportunity to appeal to the Council . 
As I understand it , Portugal does not intend , during its presidency , to take any initiatives on this issue . 
I would therefore appeal to France do so in the course of its own forthcoming presidency and , last but not least ( and if nothing has happened by then ) , to my own country , Sweden , to take measures during its own presidency with a view to achieving a peaceful resolution of this conflict after all these years . 
I am also particularly glad that Commissioner Nielson is present here today . 
I hope that we shall be able relatively soon to have a meeting in connection with what was stated here in the European Parliament by German aid organisations the other day , namely that refugees in the camps are in danger of starving and that infant mortality and deaths in childbirth have already increased by an alarming amount in recent months . 
ECHO has assumed the major responsibility of constantly providing for the refugees and , whenever this organisation wavers , the voluntary organisations are left powerless . 
They have ceased to provide aid and there is no effective coordination . 
I really would appeal to Commissioner Nielson to act quickly . I would also appeal to the chairman and members of the Committee on Budgets to deal with this issue quickly . 
I cannot think of anything worse than languishing for 25 years among the sand dunes and being taken in by referenda year upon year , only then to starve to death . 
Mr President , the Western Sahara issue is , unfortunately , familiar . 
It is one of the few legacies of colonialism still surviving in the year 2000 . Morocco is not complying with the United Nations resolutions . 
A referendum should have been held years ago , as it was in other countries such as East Timor , Latvia and other places where the right to self - determination has been exercised . 
The position of the European Parliament has always been to support , not the independence of the Sahrawi , but the right of the Sahrawi people to freely express their views . 
Even today , this right is still being suppressed , under various different pretexts . 
Meanwhile , the situation of the Sahrawi people has become serious : even their physical survival is under threat . 
In spite of this , they have kept up good relations with Morocco , continuing to conclude trade agreements in various different fields - from fisheries to citrus fruit - while the violation of human rights and of the right to self - determination is being completely disregarded . 
I therefore call for all possible steps to be taken to ensure that the right to self - determination of the Sahrawi people is recognised , if necessary through the cooling of relations with Morocco , which , moreover , has already spent too much money fighting this principle . 
Mr President , the peace process in the Western Sahara initiated and led by the Secretary - General of the United Nations looked promising . 
The eligible voters were identified thanks to the effective UN mission , MINURSO . 
But the Moroccan Government has artificially stepped up the number of appeals concerning voters , a clear sign that it wants to prevent the holding of the referendum on self - determination . 
Nor has it confined itself to these delaying tactics . In recent weeks it has embarked on violent repression of the Sahrawi people , in the form of arrests , disappearances and the introduction of a real state of siege in the occupied territories . 
In its motion for a resolution , my Group reaffirms the right of the Sahrawi people to self - determination and calls on Morocco to call an end to all forms of repression and to apply in full the Houston Agreements to which it has subscribed . 
The United Nations must do its utmost to ensure that the referendum is held before the end of 2000 . 
I call on the Council and the governments of the Member States , in particular France and Spain , to stop being so accommodating vis - à - vis the Moroccan authorities and to involve themselves more actively in the success of the peace plan and the holding of the referendum , for that is the most appropriate democratic means of achieving a peaceful and lasting settlement of the conflict in Western Sahara . 
The Commission is closely following developments in the implementation of the UN Security Council ' s plan to settle the Western Sahara conflict . 
Like the Member States of the European Union , it wholeheartedly supports the efforts of the UN Secretary - General and his personal envoy , Mr James Baker , to find a just , equitable and lasting solution for the Western Sahara . 
The Commission is aware that the organisation of the referendum is currently affected by problems with the finalisation of the list of voters and it hopes that Mr Baker ' s visit to the region will bring the desired breakthrough . 
As for humanitarian aid , the Commission channelled more than EUR 61 million through NGO partners to provide Sahrawi refugees in the Tindouf region with food , medical and sanitary aid between 1993 and 1999 , and even though the circumstances for delivering humanitarian aid in this case are quite difficult , this will not stop us from continuing our support . 
Thank you very much , Commissioner Nielson . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place today at 5 . 30 p . m . 
Mozambique
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions : 
B5 - 0244 / 2000 by Mr Miranda and others on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left ; 
B5 - 0251 / 2000 by Mr Queiró and Mr Ribeiro i Castro on behalf of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group ; 
B5 - 0254 / 2000 by Mr van den Bos on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party ; 
B5 - 0263 / 2000 by Mrs Carrilho and others on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists ; 
B5 - 0276 / 2000 by Mr Rod and others on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance ; 
B5 - 0279 / 2000 by Mrs Maij - Weggen and others on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats
on the floods in Mozambique . 
