Mr President , we are all aware of the tragic situation in Mozambique , and it is a matter of the utmost urgency to provide the necessary aid so that the government can respond to the most urgent needs of its people and succeed in reconstructing the vast regions where destruction has been almost total . 
It is essential that the Commission and the Member States commit themselves decisively to all the support actions , including financial aid for materials and equipment , technical assistance for mine - clearance in the areas of the country where this problem still applies , support for holding an International Conference to mobilise as much emergency aid as possible and obtain the economic resources necessary for the recovery of Mozambique ' s economy , which has been so cruelly affected by the floods . 
It is equally important that all the countries cancel Mozambique ' s debt in full so as to facilitate its recovery . 
We therefore call for total commitment in active solidarity with Mozambique from everyone , including this Parliament , because we think it is important to send a delegation so that Members can find out more about the situation and the country ' s reconstruction process . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , in our mind ' s eye we can still see the tragic pictures from Mozambique , the results of a rare sequence of extremely harsh natural events . 
We are also very much aware of how slow the response to this massive disaster has been . 
We regard the resolution we will be voting on today as the continuation of an emergency debate which took place at the mini - session in Brussels immediately following these events . 
We concur with all the points mentioned here : the need to keep on mobilising resources for the rescue and relief of the people who have been displaced , to carry out an inventory of the effects of the crisis as a whole and to coordinate and unite efforts to prevent the foreseeable health consequences , replant farm crops and reconstruct the country . 
But we alone should not bear the blame for the delay . 
We should also be wondering what other countries in other continents are doing . 
What about India and Pakistan , which have substantial resources and large communities resident in Mozambique ? 
And what are the nearby African countries doing ? 
Angola , for example , has powerful armed forces which could have given valuable assistance , or Zimbabwe , just next door , or Nigeria , which has an operational air force . 
These questions must also be asked given the imminence of the approaching European Union / Africa Summit , so that we can communicate better on this issue out of common concern for solidarity . 
I must also say that we are sensitive to the issue of external debt forgiveness , but we identify more with the text set out in the joint resolution . 
As a Christian Democrat , I am sensitive to the appeals of the Catholic Church in this jubilee year for positive handling of the external debt of the third world as a whole . 
But we need to make a distinction between the different situations of many African countries . 
There are cases where the fortunes accumulated by the leaders of these countries would be enough to pay off their external debt , so these are sensitive issues which need to be carefully considered . 
We know this is not the situation in Mozambique , as poor as the country may be . 
However , we think the wording of the joint motion for a resolution is correct , and I must say right away that we agree with the position taken by the Portuguese government , which is to immediately write off half of Mozambique ' s external debt . 
Mr President , the media have portrayed a distorted image of the disaster which struck Mozambique . 
Whilst the world witnessed scenes of desperate people on rooftops and in trees , aid had already got under way off camera . 
At least gripping images have a mobilising effect on public opinion and provide a strong base for aid . 
But the other side of the coin is that disasters which do not reach the news , to all intents and purposes , do not exist . 
This is why it is essential that international aid is not led by the media but only by the people in need . 
According to the organisations involved , despite everything , aid has got under way relatively quickly . 
This may be true , but this does not apply to the primary rescue operations . 
It was not the Commission which was responsible for this , but the governments . 
Aircraft , helicopters , food and medicine must be available on demand and at a moment ' s notice . 
And I mean literally at a moment ' s notice . 
The waiting period should only be determined by the distance involved , not the red tape . 
There is a need for much better cooperation between the aid organisations and the armed forces to this end . 
It is commendable that Commissioner Nielson travelled to Mozambique so quickly . 
I would be interested to hear about his trip and what he thinks of the criticism of the government ? 
And what about the criticism concerning coordination ? 
The 25 million aid package is sufficient for now , but will need to be increased at a later date . 
Mozambique has now entered an extremely difficult phase . 
Diseases must be kept at bay , the landmines littering the area must be cleared and re - housing schemes must be established . 
For many Mozambicans , the misery is only just starting , now that the media have packed up and moved on . 
It is therefore up to us , Parliament , the Council and the Commission , to closely monitor the victims ourselves . 
Mr President , we all know that the consequences of the tragic flood disaster in Mozambique would have been less serious if the more developed countries , and especially the countries of the European Union , which has a special responsibility for the former Portuguese colony , had reacted immediately by sending the necessary resources , especially helicopters , to help the population . 
For days there were only seven helicopters trying to bring those people the aid they need , while governments remained silent and the whole world looked on , anguished and appalled . 
The European Union must never behave like this again . 
To make what amends it can , it must now provide Mozambique with all the aid necessary to combat disease , feed the people and reconstruct the country materially , if necessary , going beyond the restrictive and anti - European limits laid down in the selfish budget agreements of Agenda 2000 . 
In particular the Member States must cancel their share of Mozambique ' s external debt . 
Mr President , the recent floods in Mozambique , followed by the hurricane , have thrown the country into complete disarray , at a time when it was just about recovering from the political atrocities of the past . 
It is sad that this should happen to one of the world ' s poorest countries as well . 
Unfortunately , aid got under way relatively late in the day , at least according to the reports . 
Those images of people perched on rooftops and in trees , which were transmitted across the world , have naturally caused questions to be directed at the international community and the NGOs regarding the speed of action required to alleviate the worst of the emergency situation . 
Moreover , the world also witnessed how quickly South African helicopters were on the scene and how they saved a few thousand people as a result . 
I think it would be fitting to pay tribute to them for these efforts . 
Meanwhile , we have heard from Commissioner Nielson that a great deal more was done than was made known . 
We appreciate the fact that he travelled to Mozambique in person to assess the situation and to see what the EU could do in the way of aid . 
In my opinion , the programme which has now been drawn up in conjunction with the Mozambique government is a sound one , also because it is phased . 
It will first address emergency aid , then housing and infrastructure and after that structural aid in order to get the affected areas back on their feet . 
The funding which has been set aside for this project is considerable . 
I have heard that the international community has put one hundred million on the table in the meantime , and that the EU has made a disproportionate contribution to this . 
Moreover , I heard this morning that debts have most definitely been deferred but that it is to be examined how this will be dealt with in future . 
It would be good , of course , if these debts were actually suspended , for then the Mozambique government could use the funds for this purpose . 
Mr President , I am left with an uncomfortable feeling . The images which have been broadcast obviously do not reflect reality . 
Mr Van den Bos has also pointed this out . 
This means that the European Commission should consider whether the international intervention power which Mr Solana is busy setting up should not be supplemented with a kind of European intervention power for humanitarian aid , which acts quickly and which can also inform the media quickly on the work that is being done . 
The images were inadequate , the disaster is very sad indeed , but the European Union did not stand idly by , as was suggested . We most definitely provided support . 
I think it is only fair to clarify this here . 
Mr President , rarely has the European Parliament devoted its attention to a natural disaster in circumstances so dramatic and so deserving of our support . 
It is not just the extent of this disaster , and its expression in terms of the number of dead , communities stranded , children with nothing to eat , the destruction of homes and property , or the belated aid many have spoken of today , that arouse our sympathy . 
It is the irony of a people who , after securing their independence and surviving a war , had the ability and intelligence to choose peace and democracy , and began to rebuild their infrastructure and pursue development , only to be met with a natural tragedy of these proportions , forcing it to start all over again in many areas . 
The strengthening of humanitarian aid , debt forgiveness for one of the poorest peoples in the world and the holding of the international conference provided for in the resolution , which I hope we will approve , is the least we can do for these people who will never give up their African journey towards peace , democracy and development . 
As you are aware , I visited Mozambique on 2 and 3 March , together with the Portuguese State Secretary , Mr Amado . 
We were able to visit some of the flood - affected areas , including the Chaquelan settlement where more than 28 000 people were already at that moment being assisted , thus witnessing at first hand the consequences of the flood disaster , and also witnessing the immediate effect of some of our assistance . 
From the onset of the crisis the Commission has addressed the consequences of the floods in Mozambique in a comprehensive manner . 
We have directed our attention to the following areas of concern : immediate relief , resettlement , rehabilitation , macro - economic stability and long - term development . 
On the rescue , search and recovery phase : the situation is that the Commission does not have instruments that are geared to this type of intervention . 
Member States have the logistical capacity which is needed for these kinds of activities . 
For the relief emergency aid and resettlement phase , the Commission has approved two ECHO decisions for a total of EUR 2 . 7 m for Mozambique , and we are preparing a third decision for EUR 5 . 5 m . 
These cover food aid , water and sanitation , essential relief items as well as the small - scale rehabilitation of essential health infrastructure and preparation for cholera epidemics . 
In addition , EUR 1 . 4 m from the food security budget line have been made available locally to the delegation and the government of Mozambique . 
The Commission is planning to fund the delivery of seeds and tools to the peasants to promote replanting as soon as the flood - waters recede . 
In addition to the action already funded in Botswana , the Commission is currently carrying out a humanitarian need assessment in Zimbabwe , Zambia and Madagascar . 
Turning to the rehabilitation phase , during my visit I announced an initial amount of EUR 21 m in additional funds from the development budget , of which 5 to 10 m will come from the NGO co - financing budget line and the balance from redistribution of earlier EDF funds . 
The Commission is insisting on the need for reinforced coordination with the government around the shared comprehensive reconstruction framework . 
A donor core group is meeting every week in Maputo with the government at ministerial level . 
The EU presidency and the Commission delegation are members of that group . 
The Commission intends to contribute to the preparation of the international donor conference that will be convened probably by the end of April . 
The Commission will provide its funding for the rehabilitation requirements in strict coordination with EU Member States and the other donors . 
As to macro - economic stability and long - term development : proposals intended to help Mozambique maintain macro - economic stability are currently being appraised by the Commission with the government and the World Bank . 
Additional resources , up to EUR 15 m , could be made available . 
To maintain the rapid growth achieved by Mozambique in recent years , pre - disaster levels of cooperation will be maintained and stepped up . 
This will result in disbursements for this purpose estimated at EUR 150 m this year as compared to EUR 100 m last year . 
Within the framework of the Community we will contribute EUR 1 bn for debt relief to ACP countries . 
Within this , Mozambique figures among the retroactive cases and will be eligible for debt relief under the enhanced HIPC initiative this year . 
Concerning coordination with other donors and aid agencies : the Mozambique government , in conjunction with the UN Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Assistance ( OCHA ) , provides the principal platform for coordination of rescue and relief as expressed in the consolidated appeals they have made . 
This local ownership of the coordination process should not be challenged by outside donors , at least not as long as it works reasonably well , and this - the UN organisations in Maputo informed us - is in fact the case . 
Constraints have been identified in this terrible disaster case . 
The magnitude and sudden onset of the flood disaster in Mozambique has left the Commission , as well as Member States and other donors , with the question of whether relief response could not have been speedier , as has also been pointed out in this debate . 
I am at present seeing how we can overcome these constraints to humanitarian assistance in order to provide assistance from the Community even more quickly and efficiently than at present . 
But it should not be forgotten that this was actually a catastrophe that had many surprising elements , nor was it particularly easy for Member States to mobilise and deploy very sensitive and difficult hardware such as helicopters with extreme rapidity . 
This is not easily done . 
Finally , I would like to emphasise the figures concerning the international response . 
The overall figure of funding for this disaster now stands at about EUR 109 m globally , of which more than EUR 91 m come from the Commission and the EU Member States . 
It has already been said in this debate that the European response has , relatively speaking , shown that Europe actually cares . 
In money terms we have contributed quite well . 
This is not the whole answer to the problem , and we will continue to find better and quicker ways of responding . 
Thank you very much , Commissioner Nielson . 
We all hope that our aid really will help the people get over the worst of it . 
The debate is closed . 
The vote will take place today at 5 . 30 p . m . 
Human rights
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions : 
Presidential elections in Peru
B5 - 0252 / 2000 by Mr Marset Campos and Mr Jové Peres on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left ; 
B5 - 0255 / 2000 by Mr Di Pietro on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party ; 
B5 - 0264 / 2000 by Mr Medina Ortega and Mr Fava on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists ; 
B5 - 0270 / 2000 by Mr Lipietz and Mr Knörr Borrás on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance ; 
B5 - 0280 / 2000 by Mr Salafranca Sánchez - Neyra on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats
on the electoral process in Peru . 
War crimes in Chechnya
B5 - 0245 / 2000 by Mr Markov and others on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left ; 
B5 - 0256 / 2000 by Mr Haarder and Mr Väyrynen on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party ; 
B5 - 0261 / 2000 by Mr Oostlander and others on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats ; 
B5 - 0265 / 2000 by Mr Sakellariou and Mrs Krehl on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists ; 
B5 - 0271 / 2000 by Mrs Schroedter and others on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance
on violations of human rights and humanitarian law in Chechnya . 
Freedom of the press in Serbia
B5 - 0247 / 2000 by Mrs Morgantini and others on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left / Nordic Green Left ; 
B5 - 0257 / 2000 by Mr Haarder on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party ; 
B5 - 0266 / 2000 by Mr Swoboda and Mr Sakellariou on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists ; 
B5 - 0273 / 2000 by Mr Lagendijk and others on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance ; 
B5 - 0281 / 2000 by Mr Oostlander and others on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats
on freedom of the press in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia . 
Situation in Iraq
B5 - 0268 / 2000 by Mr Naïr and Mr Sakellariou on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists ; 
B5 - 0282 / 2000 by Mr Buttiglione on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats
on the situation in Iraq . 
Situation in Jammu and Kashmir
B5 - 0250 / 2000 by Mr Swoboda on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists ; 
B5 - 0258 / 2000 by Mrs Lynne on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal , Democrat and Reform Party ; 
B5 - 0283 / 2000 by Mr Elles and others on behalf of the Group of the European People ' s Party ( Christian Democrats ) and European Democrats ; 
B5 - 0285 / 2000 by Mr Messner and Mrs Maes on behalf of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance
on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir . 
Presidential elections in Peru : 
Mr President , the violation of human rights in Peru is another case in the long list of cases occurring in Latin American countries with the connivance of a complacent United States . 
The coming elections offer no democratic guarantees , so it is up to the European Union to act as a reference point in ensuring that the citizens of Peru and the democratic parties of that country receive those guarantees . 
In view of what is going on in that country , and in Colombia , Mexico , Ecuador and elsewhere , it seems appropriate for the European Union to establish a permanent human rights observatory for Latin America . 
It is not just the euro which must compete with the dollar ; our ethical and political human rights principles must replace the old backyard and gunboat policy the United States is pursuing in the area . 
Mr President , Peru has had quite a troubled constitutional life with frequent incursions by the military into civilian life . 
After democracy was restored , as a result - certainly - of the activities of the Shining Path terrorist organisation , the democratically - elected President of Peru , Mr Fujimori , carried out a government coup by dissolving Parliament and drawing up a constitution made - to - measure for himself as President . 
The European Parliament has already had occasion to condemn this type of action by President Fujimori . 
President Fujimori has obviously re - established a degree of calm , if one can call it that , in Peru . But he has continued to keep himself in power by authoritarian means . 
In fact I would say that , for many , President Fujimori is no more than the civilian representative of military power exercised indirectly . 
Yes , there are still elections in Peru , there are political parties , there are means of communication and there are certain guarantees . 
But the guarantees are not complete . 
The proof is that three judges from the Constitutional Court were removed for opposing his re - election plans . 
That means the guarantees are not complete . 
There is no independence of the judiciary or of the legislature . 
Secondly , Peru recently withdrew from the jurisdiction of the Inter - American Court for Human Rights , and I think that is a very bad sign for a country . 
I think we should ask the Government of Peru to review that decision . 
And thirdly , there is still military action going on inside Peru at this moment , frequently creating difficulties for democracy . 
Remember that , as a member of the Andean Pact , Peru is bound to the European Union by a democracy clause and the European Community , or more specifically the Community institutions , has a certain responsibility by virtue of that democracy clause to call for the electoral process in Peru to be adapted , as far as possible , to certain essential democratic requirements . 
