Mr President , as a member of the Group of the Greens / European Free Alliance and also as a Member of the European Parliament from the Basque Country , a land which has supplied a fair number of emigrants to Latin American countries , I want to express my solidarity with all those who fight for human rights to be upheld - not only in Peru , but throughout the world . And I want to denounce the situation that exists in Peru , a situation which is due not just to the complacency and connivance of the United States , as has been mentioned here , but also to that of plenty of other countries , including European ones , and the hypocrisy which reigns over international politics . 
It is well - known - and there is the Carter Foundation report - that access to the media must be provided as soon as possible , media bias must be ended , harassment of candidates and observers in local elections must be ended , improper use of public funds for electoral advantage must be exposed , there must be transparency in electoral administration and access for all parties to the elections and the rights of independent electoral observers must be guaranteed . 
In this respect , the reference just now to a permanent human rights observatory for Latin America seems to me entirely appropriate . 
Mr President , our primary duty in the struggle to protect the civilian population , refugees and prisoners of war in Chechnya is to do everything to finally bring the war in Chechnya to an end . 
This should also be uppermost in the mind of the parliamentary delegation due to travel to the war zone over the coming weeks . 
Only a political solution to all the issues connected with the conflict and reconstruction of the region will guarantee a change in the awful situation faced by the people in the towns and villages which have been destroyed , in the refugee camps and in the prisoner of war camps . 
I should also like to warn against judging just one side and apportioning blame solely to the Russian side . 
It is clear , including from the report by the Council of Europe delegation , that human rights have been violated and war crimes committed by all the warring factions . 
They must be investigated and the guilty must be called consistently to account . 
But we should also give the competent Russian authorities the chance to do this themselves . 
Mr President , we had a welcome visit yesterday to this Parliament from a delegation from the CIS Parliamentary Assembly . 
This gave us a unique opportunity to discuss Russia ' s war with Chechnya face - to - face with other Parliamentarians . 
These visitors appealed to us to understand that , in their words , Russia was fighting against terrorism and was not waging a real war , and that this fight against terrorism had been exacerbated by outside arms flows and training camps sponsored by predatory nations jealous of Russia ' s power . 
We responded . 
Russia is a member of the Council of Europe , and even her need in terms of security to protect her citizens internally from outside assault could not absolve her from her responsibilities under international conventions . 
I put the point that the containment by Russia of arms flows from Russia would be a very welcome step forward in terms of shared efforts to combat terrorism . 
There are , however , two sides to this political tale of war and suffering , and I think we must seek more strongly to understand the causes of conflict between Russia and Chechnya , so that we can help to stem the flow of human blood more quickly another time . 
I suggest no sanctions , no economic sanctions against Russia should be considered at this time . 
We have a duty , now that the war is almost over , to have access to victims and to give aid for rehabilitation . 
Mr President , I must contradict Mr Markov quite categorically . 
It is not apportioning blame to one side to talk of the genocide committed by Russia against the Chechen people , as Lord Judd does in the report by the Parliamentary Assembly delegation of the Council of Europe . 
Of course , both sides are guilty of infringements , but Lord Judd ' s diagnosis is pretty unequivocal : genocide . 
That is reason enough not to ask Russia to investigate infringements and war crimes . 
It would be highly unusual to ask the murderer to investigate himself and we need international bodies to do this . 
What we need is the international criminal court and we must bring those responsible to justice . 
Of course , we must call on the Russian authorities here but we too must become more involved than previously , because this is not a simple internal matter of state ; it is a question of human rights violations on a massive scale in an area subject to the Human Rights Convention of the Council of Europe , in an area subject to the system of rights and values of the OSCE . 
We seem to keep forgetting that the Chechen government was elected under the supervision of the OSCE and that we also need to intercede for this legitimate Chechen government , except that we cannot find this government today , because its representatives are holed up in the mountains fighting for their very survival . 
That is why I warn against a pseudo balanced approach . 
Naturally , we must condemn infringements on both sides , but we should not confuse the perpetrator of genocide with his victims and that means that we must take good care not only to provide humanitarian aid - that must be done and it is high time that something was done by the EU here - but also to ensure that a political solution is found to the conflict . 
A political solution to the conflict cannot be enforced using the arms of the Russian army , because then the war will just keep breaking out in new forms as guerrilla war or as terrorism or as some other form of underground war . 
So we need to ensure that a negotiated solution is reached with the elected representatives of the Chechen people . 
Today we discussed the right to self - determination in the Western Sahara ; I should like to point out that the Chechen people also has a right to life and we must safeguard the Chechen people ' s right to life , either jointly with Russia or on our own . 
We have not yet reached that point , but we did hear how Russian society is currently becoming more radical from an expert this morning . 
We interceded for the release of the Russian journalist Mr Babitsky . 
He was due to visit the European Parliament today and give us an eye witness account of the situation in Chechnya , but he was not allowed to leave Russia . 
He was not allowed to come to Strasbourg because the Russian authorities are frightened of the free and open report of an independent journalist who looks at both sides critically and wished to throw some light on the truth here and reveal the genocide being committed against the Chechen people . 
It is a scandal and we cannot accept it . 
Freedom of the press for Russia is also a service to the Russian people . 
Mr President , it would seem that a war that was started to end terrorism is turning into a situation where a new terrorism is just starting . 
It seems to be becoming a permanent phenomenon in the region . 
We have condemned the Russian action over the recent months in five separate resolutions . 
There has been a certain amount of one - sided thinking in them here and there , which has not made them any more effective . 
For example , the idea to use the TACIS programme as a sanction will only lead to ordinary people suffering and has not deterred the Russian government in their policy . 
The extension of the war and terrorism is a major threat to us all . 
For that reason , we need a Caucasus peace conference , because these problems are not confined to Chechnya . 
Secondly , the human rights situation is intolerable , and we therefore need a proper investigation into violations of human rights by all parties . 
In addition , speedy and unhindered access to the area on the part of relief organisations must be guaranteed once and for all . 
Thirdly , the war must be stopped and talks begun . 
And fourthly , Russia ' s active participation in the work against international terrorism and the illegal arms trade is essential . 
Finally , the principal rule with respect to refugees is that they should be helped near to where they live and helped to return to their homes . 
We should be reminded , however - so as not to be too sanctimonious in all of this - that when Chechen refugees turned to us for help we did not receive them in our own countries as we did on such a large scale with Kosovo . 
In this we recognise the short - sightedness of our own policies . 
