Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , we know that Russia ' s international standing has been seriously damaged by the Chechen war . 
A full investigation of human rights violations involving international observers is also in Russia ' s political interests . 
Except that the Russian government does not appear to be totally convinced of the fact . 
How else are we to interpret the fact that the UN envoy Mary Robinson was not granted access to Grozny and the filtration camps . 
The agreement which has now been brokered with Mr Kalamanov by the human rights envoy of the Council of Europe , Gil Robles , is a step in the right direction . 
But it will only continue to be credible if the two Council of Europe envoys really can work independently and move freely and independently around the country . 
We reject and shall not accept any unilateral interpretation of the agreement by the Russian government . 
If it should come to the point that the Russian government fails to keep to this agreement , the Member States of the European Union must bring intergovernmental proceedings against Russia before the European Court of Human Rights and ensure that there is an international investigation of the human rights violations , and I cannot but support Mr Paasilinna . 
We too are required to put a halt to the expulsion of refugees in our countries , as the German government has done . 
We too are required to grant Chechens political asylum in our countries . 
It would make a great deal of sense if the proposals by the German government were adopted by all the Member States . 
Mr President , although this does not mean that I approve of the policy of the Chechen nationalist leaders , I wish to say on behalf of my colleagues and myself , that we are disgusted at the vile deeds the Russian army has committed in Chechnya . 
This is a despicable war , whose prime victims are the people of Chechnya , but also the young Russian soldiers . 
We are also appalled , however , at the attitude of the western powers , in particular the European ones . 
The British Prime Minister ' s recent visit to Moscow , the way he toadied to the butcher - in - chief Putin , reflect the general attitude of the western powers . 
What public opinion sees is a few declarations condemning certain aspects of the war in Chechnya ; what we are actually seeing is political and financial support for the Kremlin . 
Any western loans that have not been hijacked by the Yeltsin clan can thus be spent on pursuing the war against Chechnya . 
Many of the parties represented here in Parliament form part of governments that are pursuing this policy of conciliation and support . 
Under those circumstances , the vote in Parliament can only serve as a fig - leaf for the hypocrisy of the European big powers and their profound complicity with the crimes the Russian leaders have committed in Chechnya . 
Freedom of the press in Serbia : 
The people of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are still living in terrible conditions , battered by their own government ' s policy of homicide and suicide , NATO shelling and the embargoes of the international community . 
Any democratic opposition is difficult , not only because of suppression by the Serbian authorities but also because of the deprivation suffered by the whole of the population , for which the international community is partly responsible . The result is yet more conflict and violence . 
Today , we want to express our solidarity with the journalists and democrats whose rights have been violated and declare our commitment to fighting the Milosevic Government ' s suppression of the freedom of the press and the freedom of speech . 
The Serbian authorities are suppressing newspapers , independent radio stations and any radio stations which acknowledge opposition groups or parties . 
I would just like to mention the example of the Studio B operators who , in addition to being pressurised by heavy fines from the authorities , saw their equipment destroyed by hired masked vandals . 
In this regard , an appeal has been made to the Serbian authorities , calling upon them to bring their criminal inquiries to a close in order to punish those guilty of crimes , to put an end to the increasing suppression and to amend the recent law limiting the freedom of the media . 
We call for economic support from the European Union for the independent press , but also an economic aid programme for Serbia , to assist the entire afflicted population and to help make it possible for the people of Serbia to at last live in peace and to elect a democratic government . 
Mr President , I believe that we are all of one mind today as to how this topic should be handled and the way the media are being treated in Serbia . 
The situation in Yugoslavia is deteriorating by the day . 
In fact , it seems as if Mr Milosevic and his friends are playing a three - way game by means of which they are trying to deregulate anything which can possibly be deregulated . 
Tension surrounding Montenegro is mounting . 
At Kosovo ' s border , the situation is very unsettled and the regime in Belgrade is creating a climate in which large - scale accidents are likely . 
The last few weeks have been marked by a series of repressive measures against the independent media . 
This ranged from high fines to direct intimidation . 
In addition , there is talk of a kind of internal isolation . 
It is increasingly difficult to enter the country . 
I experienced this myself a couple of weeks ago when I tried to attend a few conferences of opposition parties in Serbia . 
During that weekend , I was refused an entry visa whilst , two weeks prior to this , many international guests had been able to attend that bizarre conference staged by Milosevic . 
It shows that every effort is being made to keep out outside influences . 
There is also talk of curtailing communication by telephone , e - mail and keeping tabs on written correspondence . 
The government seems keen to remove the opposition from local authorities , where they have been entitled to be since the previous local elections . 
The new regime can only win the new local elections , expected in May , if the opposition is , in effect , eliminated . 
I find this a dangerous game . 
Consequently , we would like to see extensive protests against this media repression , but the EU should also look for ways to provide direct support to Serbia ' s independent media . 
The latter is a vital lifeline for the opposition which will be mounting campaigns again this spring and which certainly deserves our support , also where the media is concerned . 
Mr President , we have started a new round - the umpteenth - in Milosevic ' s war against the free media . 
So much is clear . It seems to be heralding the elections in a perverse kind of way . 
The campaign has started and anyone who disagrees with him needs to keep their mouths shut . 
It is really unacceptable that elections will soon take place - allegedly formal , democratic elections - in a country where the opposition has first been left without any tool to express itself . 
It is a trademark of a totalitarian regime which knows all too well that free , independent media are a nuisance and pose a threat , even to a regime such as that of Milosevic . 
The EU ' s support - on which we are probably all agreed - can roughly take two forms . 
It would be beneficial to support the media in the neighbouring countries : Croatia and a number of other countries have been mentioned . 
I am in favour of this . But it can never replace support provided to the media in Yugoslavia , in Serbia , media which deserve this support . 
The EU makes a difference . 
The EU has made a difference in the past with its support . It has an obligation to do this in future and should also be given the means to do this . 
This is fine within the framework of the new CARA programme , but it is also particularly important that this should happen in two weeks ' time , in conjunction with the Stability Pact . 
At the finance conference on the Stability Pact , the European Union can and must commit itself to a number of programmes . 
The programmes are ready , the necessity is there ; let us take swift and unambiguous action . 
Mr President , whichever way we view the Balkans , in the light of recent atrocities or future events in terms of the Stability Pact , we always seem to come up against this horrifying character of Milosevic and his cronies , people who have a string of crimes against humanity to answer for and who should urgently be taken to the Court of Justice in The Hague . 
This crook , this old communist crook , is able to remain in power on account of his virtual monopoly of radio and TV and his oppression of any critical independent alternative , among other factors . 
Various actions have been undertaken on the part of the European Union , such as providing independent stations with equipment . 
But now that one station after the other is being closed down , the EU will need to act again in consultation with the affected parties . 
We just heard that Mr Wiersma was denied a visa to visit the opposition in Belgrade . 
It is most peculiar that the European Union is not really aware that we too have this tool at our disposal and that , for example , we should , in fact , deny entry to the EU to the Serbian football hooligans in return , because they are people who take advantage of the Milosevic regime in the most shocking manner . 
Now that the Stability Pact will be coming into its own , the help of the neighbouring states will provide a new and sound alternative , especially now that Croatia has experienced a political U - turn . 
Alternative reports can be directly provided via stations in Croatia and also in Montenegro . 
The Stability Pact can only succeed if Serbia is a democratic constitutional state , not before , and once the criminals have been brought to justice . 
As long as Milosevic and his friends can introduce laws which undermine the traditional human rights and human freedoms , as long as this is the case , the outlook for Serbia remains bleak . 
It is unfortunate that the internal opposition is so weak and so divided nationally . 
The European Union will need to look for powers in Serbia which are not driven by this blinkered nationalism but by values whose observance has also proved to benefit humanity in the European Union . 
Mr President , we will gladly support our compromise resolution , especially once the GUE / NGL has pulled out . 
Mr President , ladies and gentlemen , this is not the first time that we have debated the media in Serbia ; we have been discussing this matter for years . 
We should remember that , in October 1998 , once NATO considered that the first planned attack on Serbia in order to help the Kosovars was over , because Milosevic had allegedly given way and allowed unarmed OSCE observers into the country , that it was precisely at this point that this Information Act was issued and began causing so many problems for the independent media : and now we are looking at the result . 
It has become clear over the last two years that the media are being increasingly sidelined . 
But we have already said that . 
How weak must the Milosevic regime really feel , given how it treats the media ? 
Apparently he is terrified that the awful truth of his inhumane treatment of all Serbian citizens over the years , even against the Serbs in Serbia , might finally be revealed to the majority of these citizens , terrified that the people might soon deal with Milosevic and his henchmen the way the Romanians dealt with Ceaucescu . 
I think he is terrified of this and we should help the media so that they can spread the truth about Milosevic and his regime . 
Mr President , apparently , the Milosevic regime is not tired of fighting battles , not by a long shot . 
Recently , it has taken systematic action against local stations , in particular . 
It does not flinch from using violence in these activities . 
Neither do the government - run media shrink from launching a full - blown witch hunt against the country ' s independent media . They are then termed rather scornfully ' NATO agents ' and ' traitors of the mother country '  . 
It is not by chance that the powerful Serbian police apparatus operates mainly at local level , especially in those towns and cities where the opposition emerged victorious in the 1996 local elections . 
With the same elections round the corner and parliamentary elections not too far off either , many in Serbia suspect that the Milosevic regime has already launched its own campaign . 
The target , regional radio and television stations , is an obvious one from a Milosevic viewpoint . 
Anyone in Serbia ' s small and medium - sized towns who wants to see and hear anything other than what is spouted parrot - fashion by the state media based in Belgrade is heavily reliant on these stations . 
By the way : the few independent papers that do exist are hard to come by in the provinces . 
This once again underlines the significance of a political counter weight on the Serbian air waves . 
As can be expected , Serbia ' s dictator is fighting his battle against the as yet independent media in an underhand manner . 
Legalistic arguments over missing licences or outstanding financial state payments mask the true political intentions : to silence his own people as much as possible . 
What did receive the official seal of approval for the Serbian population , however , were the politically correct pop music stations of Slobo ' s son Marko and daughter Marija . 
Given this sad situation , all those in Serbia who stand up for the freedom of the press deserve our support . 
This is not just verbal support , but also tangible support in the form of new transmission equipment being provided to the affected stations , following consultation , as stipulated in paragraph 3 of the present joint resolution . 
Milosevic ' s willing servants are then welcome to hold on to the confiscated technical equipment . 
Situation in Iraq : 
Mr President , the majority of the Security Council - France , China , Russia - is now in favour , subject to certain conditions , of lifting the embargo imposed on Iraq nearly ten years ago . Imposed on the Iraqi people I should say . 
The UN inspectors responsible for monitoring disarmament in Iraq have destroyed or ordered the destruction of the stocks of arms , material and products that could lead to the manufacture of weapons of mass destruction . 
They have made sure that Iraq has no long - range missiles that could threaten its neighbours . 
The International Atomic Energy Agency has concluded , after a number of investigations on the ground , that Iraq has no capacity to produce nuclear weapons , as has been confirmed by the reports of three groups of experts on Iraq , and as the UN Security Council ' s Resolution 1284 confirms today . 
That is why our resolution calls for this embargo to be lifted . 
Nonetheless , the US Government refuses to definitively lift the embargo , on the pretext that Iraq has not respected its obligations . 
Without offering the slightest proof , Washington continues to accuse Iraq of secretly manufacturing biological and chemical weapons . 
In response to this concern - which , according to the experts , is unfounded - France has proposed to the Security Council that the lifting of the embargo be accompanied by further inspections relating to disarmament and by controls on Iraqi imports . 
Washington has refused this proposal too , thus creating a situation which primarily hits the Iraqi people and not their leaders . 
According to the UN humanitarian agencies , several hundreds of thousands of Iraqis , including some 500 000 children , have died prematurely because of the embargo , for lack of food , medicines or adequate care . 
For the first time in ten years , an American delegation of advisors and congressmen published a report yesterday , on 14 March , on their return from a visit to Iraq . In it they call for the embargo to be lifted for humanitarian reasons . 
According to that delegation , the ' oil for food ' programme is a totally inadequate response to the urgent physical needs of the Iraqis . 
Mr Eric Rouleau , the former French Ambassador , speaks of a slow - motion genocide . 
Our resolution therefore calls for an end to this situation . 
However , we also think we need a broader debate on this subject . That is why we are not putting this resolution to the vote today . 
On an issue as serious as this one , we prefer , first of all , to call for a Commission and Council declaration . 
We are therefore proposing that this debate be deferred to the month of April . 
At that time , we will endeavour to obtain the support of all those who want to bring this inhumane embargo to an end and to do so , needless to say , without giving Saddam Hussein ' s regime a blank cheque . 
Mr President , the situation before us arises from the Iraqi Government ' s refusal to accept United Nations Resolution 1284 . 
As things stand at the moment , the Iraqi government is not prepared to accept this resolution , and there is a real danger that when the United Nations Commission responsible for monitoring the destruction of weapons of mass destruction applies for an entrance visa it will be refused . 
The British and American Governments have already given it to be understood that , in this case , hostilities would be resumed . 
It is therefore possible that , in a few months ' time , we will have a major military clash on our hands , not just the ticking over of long drawn out hostilities as , sadly , is the case even now - the bombs continue to fall periodically - but large - scale bombings within the space of a few weeks . 
I feel that we should focus our attention on the possibility of preventing this from happening . 
I am sure that the Iraqi Government is prepared to accept Resolution 1284 - a fact confirmed by contact with the Iraqi leaders - but it needs clarification on certain points which are referred to in the Resolution . 
It must be made clear that , at the end of the United Nations mission , the embargo will be lifted - not just suspended , but lifted once and for all . 
No one will consider rebuilding Iraq if it is obvious that there will only be four months of stability , and that , after that , the embargo could be reimposed without fresh , credible reasons . 
We have attempted to besiege Iraq and to force the Iraqi people to change their government through the embargo and we have not succeeded , even though we have been trying for seven and a half years . 
Instead of driving the Iraqis to rebel against the regime in power , the embargo has induced them to hostility towards the West , and in any case , has made them incapable of any kind of action . 
I feel that it would be more destabilising for the regime to return to a more comfortable situation in terms of trade , to a situation in which the people have at least some hope of happiness , rather than to continue with the embargoes which , at this stage , are not succeeding in overthrowing the regime , but are simply inflicting enormous suffering on the people and , in particular , on Iraqi children . 
Iraqis are not going to die of starvation . 
There is no famine , but there is an extremely serious health problem : the water and drainage systems have disintegrated and sewage water and drinking water mix , creating dysentery rates which send the infant mortality rate sky high . 
The people need more than medicine : they need us to go out there and rebuild their water supply network , their drainage system and their power stations , restoring an adequate quality of life . 
I feel that our resolution should also serve to reassure the State of Israel . 
We must not forget that Iraq does not possess any nuclear weapons and is not likely to be able to produce any , but it is also true that if it did , its government , or part of it , would use them . 
We must therefore make it clear to Israel that a major concern of our policy is the defence of the State of Israel and the right of the State of Israel to exist . 
We must draw up a balanced resolution which is acceptable to all the parties involved if we want to avoid the military clash which is lurking over the horizon : not a demagogic declaration , but a political proposal in which Europe takes control in order to protect world peace , exercising its key role in this area with due responsibility . 
Mr President , I must confess that I am extremely unhappy that we are not going to vote on this motion today . With every passing moment , we are rushing towards the danger of a military clash which must be avoided . 
I called for the issue to be debated during the last part - session , and I wonder at the fact that a month passed before our socialist friends managed to reach a consensus with us regarding a motion , even though there should not have been any difficulties as we agree on the basic points . 
Nevertheless , I realise that it is also important for us to achieve as great a consensus as possible in order to give our governments a firm basis . 
However , I call for no more time to be wasted , for I would not like us , as has happened in the past , to once again have to discuss what we should have done to preserve peace once war has already started . 
Mr Buttiglione , if I may summarise , you are confirming the note the Chair has received in the meantime , on behalf of your Group , and in agreement with Mr Naïr , to the effect that this resolution will be withdrawn . 
But the debate will continue , regardless of what is going to happen in the next part - session in April and which I hope will accord with the political wishes the two of you have expressed here . 
So the debate continues and the resolutions are withdrawn . 
Mr President , I too am sorry that the vote will not now be taking place . 
I am concerned , as are the other speakers , at the plight of the people in Iraq . 
One should never forget that the plight of the people in Iraq is being inflicted upon them by their own government . 
We should not forget that in January this year Parliament passed a resolution asking that the Kuwaiti prisoners of war still imprisoned in Iraq should be released or at least that details should be given to their families and that there should be compliance with the United Nations resolutions . 
That has not happened and we must be quite unequivocal in sending the message to Iraq , and indeed to the people of Kuwait , that we in Europe are not going to forget and are not going to ignore the plight of those people still being improperly imprisoned in Iraq . 
We want to make that message as loud and clear and unequivocal as we possibly can . 
Mr President , the UN sanctions have become a weapon of mass destruction , claiming at least 200 children ' s lives every day . 
Dennis Halliday , who resigned from his position as director of the UN humanitarian mission in Iraq in protest at the sanctions , confirms the UNICEF statistics - five to six thousand children die every month as a direct result of the sanctions . 
Mary Robinson , the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights , has been speaking out against the sanctions imposed in violation of international law , which prohibits the starving of civilians as a method of warfare . 
She says :  ' How can you expect me to condemn human rights abuses in Algeria , China and elsewhere when the United Nations themselves are responsible for the situation in Iraq ? ' 
The UN economic sanctions have denied Iraqis spare parts to restore infrastructure , making water and airborne infectious disease rampant . 
Furthermore , the shortage of medical and food aid has made deaths from these treatable diseases epidemic . 
The UN estimates that five to six thousand children die unnecessarily each month due to sanctions , even after the UN food for oil programme . 
The sanctions constitute relentless lethal force , and innocent Iraqi people caught between opposing forces are paying the price . 
It cannot continue . 
John Pilger ' s documentary two weeks ago on British television showed quite clearly what the situation is , and nobody with an ounce of humanitarian concern in them can ignore this plight and can persecute the innocent people who have no say over Saddam Hussein . 
This is ridiculous : a war is being waged against voiceless children basically because the United States , and indeed the British , are supporting this kind of inhumanity to their fellow man . 
Mr President , we are spending a few minutes discussing an issue which , although seemingly a long way from Europe , is really close by because , in today ' s world , trouble spots can reverberate throughout the entire world . 
It is in the interests of all of us to prevent a new crisis and a new war in Kashmir , because , in the final analysis , it would come down to a military conflict between two countries which are equipped with atomic weapons , which are striving for atomic weapons and which are prepared to acquire atomic weapons . 
Whatever the details , whichever way you look at it , it is a damned dangerous situation which we have to avoid . 
Without making a value judgement , I think that both countries , India and Pakistan , must exercise extreme restraint . 
The one with regard to increasingly frequent violations of its borders and the other with regard to increasingly frequent proven discrimination against sections of the population , especially Muslim sections of the population in India . 
I do not want to make an assessment , I do not want to put it on the scales , but both sides are guilty of fanaticism , in this case religious fanaticism and extremism , which is making this trouble spot more and more dangerous . 
The European Union - and we have debated human rights , xenophobia and discrimination at length over the past few days - must fight against this extremism with all the means at its disposal wherever it occurs , at home , in the candidate countries or throughout the entire world . 
We have to support all available initiatives . 
We are not the ones in the hot seat when it comes to taking initiatives . 
The United Nations and , without doubt , the United States of America find themselves in this position . 
But it is incumbent upon us to state clearly that this conflict needs to be resolved , not exacerbated . 
In this sense , Mr President , I consider it important for Europe to raise its voice and call on both countries , both India and Pakistan , to do whatever they can and to offer them both international aid if they consider that it is needed or makes sense in order to resolve this conflict . 
What we must not do is keep quiet . 
Mr President , I am pleased that we are debating this resolution today even though I would have preferred the ELDR resolution to have been the one we are debating . 
India and Pakistan have carried on this conflict for over fifty years now . 
There were UN resolutions that called for a plebiscite for the people of Kashmir all that time ago , and still nothing has happened . 
It is even more important now that we find a solution , especially as both India and Pakistan are nuclear powers . 
If there is another war across that border , I believe it could turn into a nuclear war , and that will be a problem not only for India and Pakistan and the people of Kashmir but for all of us . 
That is why I hope India and Pakistan will come to the negotiating table , together with the people of Kashmir . 
I would like to see either the European Union or the USA acting as an honest broker , as a mediator , to try to find an end to this dispute . 
But whatever happens , the human rights abuses must stop . 
We have daily reports of rapes , murder , torture , and a lot of people say ,  " Oh , this is an exaggeration "  . 
But when I was in Azad Kashmir and I went to one of the refugee camps a few years ago I was very moved by the first - hand accounts I heard . 
I was even more moved when I went into a tent where the women and children were . 
I went up to one woman and although we could not speak each other ' s languages we stood there and hugged each other . 
That woman was sobbing her heart out . 
I could almost touch the pain , really feel the pain of that woman . 
She was not acting it , she was not pretending it - nobody goes to a refugee camp for fun . 
They were there because they had been tortured , they had been mistreated and they were escaping . 
That was not an isolated incident , and it is still happening today . 
We must find a solution . 
They must come to the negotiating table . 
Mr President , I am as delighted as others are that we are having this debate today for the first time in our elected parliament in this session . 
It is long overdue , for the reasons which our previous speakers have already underlined . 
Relations between India and Pakistan are indeed deteriorating , with Kashmir being a particular bone of contention . 
Tensions are also being aggravated by the fact that these two countries are nuclear powers . 
Indeed , in the Herald Tribune of Tuesday , March 14 , 2000 , the headline reads :  " Nuclear war between India and Pakistan is a real possibility "  . 
For this reason alone , supported also by the well - known UN resolutions and the reference which has already been made to the constant violation of human rights , Kashmir is no longer a problem that can be swept under the carpet and not debated in this Parliament , as has happened for many years . 
It is increasingly an international problem and one where mediation will , in my view , become essential . 
So what can we do to bring long - term stability to this volatile region ? 
We discussed this issue when we met with members of the US Congress in our normal framework of delegations earlier this year . 
The US is in favour of arbitration , but it strikes me that , when President Clinton visits these two countries next week , India should be asked to come to the negotiating table so that , together with Pakistan , it can find a long - term settlement to this Kashmir question . 
Equally , the European Union should , when formulating policy towards South - East Asia , raise the profile of this issue in order that we in the Foreign Affairs Committee can have a more substantive reason to have a debate in our Chamber in a few months ' time . 
As these two approaches are made , this two - pronged approach by the European Union and the United States is , in my view , the best way to start the process for long - term peace and stability in this region . 
